0:00  
Sending. And then there's also networking, one interview, like,

0:09  
if you're going into like, indeed, versus all that stuff, yeah, that'd be great. We just like someone found it yesterday.

0:31  
So you can remove that. Yeah, I

0:35  
got some rejection. So, so, yeah, I also I'm applying to graduate schools. And, yeah, well, with the first priority on graduate schools and then jobs. And honestly, I've applied to more jobs than graduate school so far, because those applications are, like, quicker and easier, right? So the thought process here is that I might be better off going to graduate school, you know,

1:10  
because, anyway,

1:13  
yeah, because I think, well, there's, there's a couple aspects here, like, it's going to be, like, four years the graduate schools I'm going to be paying for, like, the grad schools I'm going to be applying for are paid for, yeah, because physics and, like engineering graduate schools, if they don't pay you, then it's kind of a scam. Yeah? So that's, that's that, and then I would be kind of like, I love learning and doing research, so that's good. And then later on, I think being a research scientist or like engineer, or like working in those fields, even in a technical field, because Google only hires like PhD research scientists, you know? So I think that would be really nice. So I'm looking into like computer science, computer engineering, applied physics, electrical engineering, or something along those lines, for graduate schools and then for jobs, it's the same, but like, I'm more so looking at like associate electrical engineer, or like beginner or like sales engineer, something, something like, I guess, start off with entry level, yeah, entry level engineering, or entry level, like technical consulting, Things like that. I do have one interview for a so, you know, MLH, the hackathon, yes, yeah. So they do, like, hack phones across the country. I have an interview to be a coach for MLH remotely. So that's really good. It's like, it's like a technical consulting gig. But since, like, the actual gig is just like, kind of working with college students, you know, like they're doing that, right? You don't have to, well,

3:16  
you're sources,

3:17  
yeah. So the goal at the end is to be like, maybe, like a solutions engineer or research scientist, or something along the lines of those. Yeah, I think a solutions engineer would be like, a nice long term goal, because I think, like, it kind of bridges, like the gap between like, technical project management and like being there. It's like, take the like idea and then create, create something that could be sold. You know, yeah, that'd

3:50  
be nice. Yeah. Are we gonna be doing today? Yes, um, I just wanna make sure I

3:55  
get you so I have, I have, I tried to take your advice. I made a couple resumes, one like a lighter, like more social resume, and then one more technical. And then I have a sheet of places I'm applying for. And then the third thing is that, how do I find more to apply for? Yeah, yeah,

4:28  
I think there's two. One, you know, making sure you have access to or find all the place that this stuff hides is good. The other thing is to continue the networking piece when you're talking to alumni who are doing interesting things, would be that that's could get you, that could get you pretty far, that those relationships that you could build, and I know you've done some of it, can maybe get you past that first screen. Could get you past the ETS, those kinds of things. And if you're doing that, then that's, you know, it can take some time, and you don't know, it could be a long term payoff. So are you doing that? Are you trying to connect with people through LinkedIn, on network, and just asking for advice?

5:19  
Yeah, I I I did that and, like, there haven't been, like,

5:23  
response, getting a lot of responses, yeah. I mean, you're using both.

5:28  
No, I haven't used one network a lot. I should get in to one network more. Is there? This is something I've been thinking about. There's one network. Is just a website? Is there like, a one network app, or is

5:41  
it? Yeah, I mean, it's, it's, I think there, I think there's

5:44  
a mobile piece. Do I get through, like, Safari to get to the one network app? Yeah, me,

5:50  
let's just go to, I'm gonna go to the blackboard site. You've got access to that, right? Because everything's on there,

5:58  
so you're on this, right?

6:05  
No, oh, wait, yes, okay, I think, let me,

6:08  
let me check your Blackboard. It'll probably be under others, because it's not, you know, you want your main courses,

6:17  
science, okay? It wasn't started. Got it all

6:23  
right? You're in there. Okay, cool. So there's a lot in here. So as you were looking for opportunities, have you looked in this in a while? Okay, so let me just couple highlights, and then we'll get you to one network too. So previous programs can be kind of interesting, you know, because we record the ones that they prefer full couple things under for exploration. I know that you know what you want to do, look at what kind of do. Is this major. It's a paid for database. If you go here, and we're not really, it's really what you want to do versus your major, right? But if you wanted to go engineering, electrical engineering, for example, just click on that for fun, electrical engineering, it gives you some of these comments, so you might give you some ideas also, where else to look. These are very general strategies advising a major This is usually the area I like the best on these pages. So you get the professional association. Yeah, that could be very helpful for you, too. Have you been kind of honing in on any of those?

7:30  
My my professor gave me, like, a little pamphlet for the National Society of Black physicists. So that's, that's something I should like.

7:39  
Look, that would be a really again, that networking with them, and sometimes they have student memberships that are cheaper conferences. You can get discounts on things like that. That's when you're really starting to get something away and meeting some people so and just reading what they're talking about, what are the trends, kind of keeps you up to date on that stuff. You know, that's interesting, or, okay, that's not so interesting. But anyway, and they might even have professional development opportunities virtually that you can do things like that. So professional associations, and so you might want to look at a couple of them, and then these related resources are can be helpful. And then some of these job boards, if you have not seen them, and this is straight up doing research on occupation. So just want to again, call what kind of this major? It's kind of a, I kind of like it. The those little things up on the pages are pretty good. We also have career by subject area where we just, it's like a DOM puff, so in a folder, so you could go under, for example, computer science. You're going to see, this is an internship resource. So these are people. This is just like, Where have people interned? But they could give you some ideas of companies. I think it's just a sheet. And then there's also Lindley. I I

9:05  
gotta check that one and make it visible if it's not. But there's things. Are you looking in particular area for your job?

9:11  
Oh, like location? I think the St Louis, Missouri area. So

9:16  
it's not going to be on here, because these are just some ones that in crystal, Virginia, but you should look for tech hubs and things in st in that area. Have you done that yet?

9:28  
No, I'm going to, I'm going to St Louis in like, a couple weeks, actually, end of next week, I'm going to the SC 25

9:39  
hopefully you'll get more contacts. And those are good questions. These are questions to ask when you're networking with people. Is like, where is there a local like tech hub, tech hub professional, you know, any kind of professional, a lot of times there's young professional organizations too, that can be really helpful. They just kind of, sometimes they do virtual stuff, but then they can do in person things. And just, that's just meeting people right in front of people. And so these are some examples of those, but you could find probably any area. So this is just a lot of different things for computer science, and there's other other areas, and there's even multiple science discipline you don't let everything else learn so that could have something for you. And then the there's fellowship potential, building your skills like you know, that kind of thing which is there for you. Remember? It has you have free access still LinkedIn learning that will be listed in there as well, and then the job search area right here. So under networking, I'm going to just show you it has, like just an overview of everything you probably have your stuff, but these are good to kind of check and make sure you think your profile is up say we can review it too. Oh, yeah, that would be great. And then this is nice, because these are just like templates, because if you're reaching out through LinkedIn that you have and you got that little, you know, free, tiny text, you know, you don't give you a lot of characters to write. These are just some examples of request messages you can use, and somewhere, somewhere with just people like, like, if you're going for alumni, but even recruiters. So there's some things in there might be helpful. Just to look at. This is an actual job course that's paid for by William Mary this land perfect job LinkedIn. So the guys who did this worked at LinkedIn, and now they took people how to use it. So there's like, video modules, so you can hop around and look at that if you want, but it's something you have access for free. So there's one network is here, and when you go in, like, you just log in. I use my, they make it pretty easy. I use my my, yeah, LinkedIn or password. Well, that's not my

12:15  
right one. That's

12:21  
why I that's not my right one. That's why browser trying to log in this,

12:35  
on this get into one network so you see, been Do you have an account? Okay, cool. So when you're on it, you can do it. You'll see we have over 11,000 users of what we've been around two years, so fewer than your LinkedIn. But a lot of these can be more engaged, because there is more recent for them, and you can reach out to them just the same way. The good thing about it, for example, you can do a search, keyword search up here if you want, or search by your location history. But you also go in William, Mary, and you could find the organization you're in. And then you can have a double connection, like see who's ahead of you that were alumni, that were in whatever clubs you're in, or something a lot of people really love, like the fraternity, sorority ones, you know. So you can do that too, and then narrow down this list, and then can do it by professional interest or whatever. So once you get this list narrowed down, you can go in, and I'm just like clicking on somebody, just to show you. So when you get in here, you know, some people going to write a lot. Some people aren't going to write as much because they have a LinkedIn, if they this, also can do to LinkedIn. So make sure you link yours as well. When you're setting up and go into your account. You can do that if you haven't already. You'll notice the message box for this is huge. The good thing this one network is you're not asking me connect. You're already connected. Automatically. They verify you coming in. So, and this is alumni. People work here, student Georgia, and then you'll also, yeah, and it's good because they have, they have good advice as well. So we have that big it has a lot bigger text box. You can also schedule meetings with the schedule. If this is what I tell students, this might be helpful for you to just share those people who don't aren't sure how to do go about doing things, like I don't know how to reach out. It gives some tips. Template they want to use that, yeah. So it's you can message either way, this way, if they have it, if they filled it out, sometimes they don't, but don't feel, you know, you can still reach out to them. They join this and are connected. They did it on purpose. So you can still message anybody in here and just, you know, to say you want to talk, you're interested in what they did at so and so love to learn, learn more about that. So that's that's all under one network. They do under one network. There's a user guide

15:08  
and then mobile app, oh, I didn't see that, yeah. So

15:11  
it's under the Blackboard site. If you want to go or just go to one library one network, you should be able to find it. Another thing I want to point out is they have these online networking hours, so it's usually once a month. Yeah, I don't know if you've done that.

15:24  
I've gotten the notification, but like, I have classes, yeah, 12, yeah, 11,

15:30  
yeah. And this one, this one, these are, is the 12 o'clock. So these are alumni career. These are helping alumni got laid off in the DC area. So that's what those are. But the online networking hour is what I'm talking about. I see and then so 12 in November, 20, it'll be one. There'll be one in December as well, December when they'd like to think that

15:52  
around, have you guys been getting a lot of, like, callbacks since, like, called up from, like, alumni, since the layoffs?

16:01  
Yeah, we've, yeah, there's, there's a concerted we have two people who work with alumni who are remote. One is in DC, Chicago. Yeah, Alex, you got Alex Wilson, Yeah, Alex beer,

16:14  
oh yeah, Alex beer, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm meeting with him, yeah. Monday, I knew you had a meeting. So yeah, he,

16:21  
is in Chicago area,

16:24  
Illinois. That's interesting. Yeah.

16:26  
So they work a lot with our alumni who've graduated a while, like we work still just coming out, like next year, you know, they come back, but after about five years, then they kind of

16:37  
shift to the Yeah. They find their place, yeah.

16:40  
And then Alex and Michael will still, you know, because people are in transition, or, you know, they just want to change. There's certain we do have Alumni Services. So anyway, this online network now you answer a couple questions, it tries to put you in by interest. In over a course of an hour, you can talk to up to eight people. It's be networking. And I have had students do it and come back with good contacts. Just by talking to a couple people, it's like, oh, that was really good. You also get used to the it's like, it's like, especially for you know, your some of your students that you work with who are just like, that's not their thing. This is safe kind of place too, because everybody wants to be there. You're not bothering them. So it could be something worth the one in December, we'll be thinking drawing your logs. Everybody will be talking, you know, that they just do it for fun. But anyway, that can be something. So one network is something to maybe start utilizing on your end. And you see the banners in that, you know, like, willing to help, and all that kind of stuff. It's, it's nice when they can see that so you can play around. They are also have communities. There is a STEM community as well.

17:53  
Does the Career Center have any like, big events coming up, or like planned for, for next spring,

17:58  
spring, we will have a spring career fair. We will have our fall is heavier,

18:05  
yeah, we will also have more to back to back in the fall

18:09  
environmental one. We're having a little environmental one. We've got a few environmental companies, but, yeah, there's a spring career fair, and then, of course, a lot of different programming. And then we have an education career fair, that kind of thing. So, and then it's always in TribeCareers, so you can always see our events there.

18:35  
Okay, I'll take a look at the more in depth. Sorry, I didn't see the

18:39  
black foresight. Yeah, it will have some stuff in under job search. And then there's also a job search. And tech might be, you might have seen all of it, but it could be, I haven't seen any of the blackboard the job search, different stuff. Yeah, again, there's certain like tech jobs, probably wherever you're going, probably some, some type of group that is collecting that stuff. So getting honed in, I think, for you, that the networking is going to be big, and finding these associations and things that are kind of doing this collectively, yeah, to kind of save you some you can get tapped into just like, like, express or recommended that organization. I think those are very good in going conferences,

19:26  
right? Yeah, so all that's on here, and then, yeah, do you want me look at

19:34  
your resume? Yeah, that'd be great. I have two. So it's kind of dense, because I was, I was kind of like, scared of the AI thing where they would, like, scan through and just wipe

19:50  
all right. So one of the things I'm this is not This looks great, but ATS doesn't like looking great. So because you're in columns, it won't, was not going to read that very well. He doesn't like templates. It doesn't like two separate columns. So that's what we've learned, and they're pushing it to us, so you might want to just take this and just put every, you know, everything to the left, and it's not gonna look as pretty, yeah, but like they say, ATS doesn't date. They're not looking for a date, so they're looking for the content. So I would, this is, like, I say it's really nice looking. The other thing is, when we read we're going right down that left side of the page. So you want really the important stuff.

20:33  
So instead of these columns of, like, the contact and items here, I shouldn't, like, move those, like, to the

20:39  
I would, yeah, I would just leave it more you go this way, it won't look this nice, but this is just like this one's like a marketing example, but I think we'll go through your content. This is just, we're just talking right now right ATS may not pick that up very well. So that could be also another thing, if you're not getting to the next level, this is very standard. I know you have a lot more than this, but you know, education should be near the top for you, because you at the top because you are a still a student, and they're looking for, if you're going to entry level, they'll be looking here, yeah, and you've got, I'm looking at yours.

21:22  
I so

21:34  
you could put your other education piece if you wanted to, if you want the theater, film and television, depending on what you're applying for. You may leave it off. You may put it on there. So it says where the study abroad is. You could put that in underneath for that. Some people put relevant coursework because they're trying to pick up on specific things, like, you know, machine learning, or, you know, those kinds of things. You can do it, but you may not need it because you have a lot more experience than some. So that's just a you know, if you wanted to, and GPA, if it's over three, oh, can be on your resume as well, because it's a strength. Then I think skills section, if you want to have you've got your key skills on here. I think I like the idea of categorizing it for people. So you this person is again, marketing so different social media is not going to probably be the biggest thing you could do, languages, you know, or certifications. You can have whatever categories you want. You can have a couple or more, because I see God, get your CAD. Yeah, all good. All that stuff is good to have on there. Also, if you're utilizing AI, go ahead and start getting that stuff before doing that. If you're using it, let them see how you're you know, because it's we can't avoid it now. And they, they want people who know how to use it so and what to do with it in the right way. So, so that could be in your skill second. So then you've got your experience. And I like that you have your GitHub on there. So if you wanted to, you could go across the top like this. It's again, and then you can have your LinkedIn, and then personal, and then you got skills. So then you're going to go into your experience, you've got

23:37  
and you've got campus involvement. I'm going to say you can call your headings what you want to

23:42  
so, but call that leadership.

23:46  
That was a that's a nice, big description of you in also with ATS, the bulk of what it's looking it's giving you credit for is this, this stuff, right? We're the all the experiences we're bulleting here. So if you you've got to make sure you want to put the word experience after the heck the section. So leadership experience and that projects need to be project experience, because it won't read it like that. It won't it's looking for that word so that we want to get the word experience on there.

24:38  
All right, so let me go back up and look at content.

24:57  
Great, and I think a good strong bullet is that action verb, then the tool, or whatever you use, and then did you get results? Or what did you achieve with that? That's the strongest bullet. So you did that pretty well, but you can see there might be some places you I could, I could put what my result was

25:15  
absolutely and then I've got

25:18  
this other I it your estimates impressive, so we just have to get it so it gets red.

25:33  
You have this sheet,

25:35  
I will take another

25:37  
that is my favorite. And the reason why I say it's because it gets hard, because you start repeating verbs a lot.

25:51  
And I like that you make anytime you can quantify is good. They like numbers for some reason. Statistically, if you have some numbers in those bullets, it's more likely to be looked at even by everything.

26:17  
And you may be able probably when you're doing this because you're using two lines here to say what you did and where it was. You could maybe save space, if you could put your title where it is, city, state, dates, and then get it on one line that'll give you extra line.

26:40  
These templates are nice looking, but, yeah, you get hard

26:45  
to edit too. Yeah, it's actually way too long to do. So

26:49  
yeah, I just would take the content and yeah, make it straight up, straight up, boring resume.

26:55  
Do you guys have like, this template online that can like, well,

27:00  
it's not a template. It's not a template, yeah, but you can just straight up type it in more. It's probably better. Anyway, templates don't get read by APS, right? Yeah, either. So yeah, you can look at, in fact, under the we're trying to update our examples of resumes, because they're not all very ATS friendly. But if you're looking for content under the resume section, there's some different ones too, so you can look at different ones to see. So if you go into resume, where is it? Here?

27:33  
Resume cover letter. This also has cover letter stuff too.

27:40  
So y'all have one from biochem. This

27:42  
is good. You can look at again, we're trying to update them because they're not all BTS from you, but I'm telling you this little ATS things, so you know, yeah, but yeah, you can look at different, like, especially some of the technical ones, and see what you like about it. Back to your thing. And then I would just keep everything even down here, you've got the model provided real time, give me like the result, like in that still, that same bullety with the action verb that you're doing, you know, which resulted in real, You know, time that you know, just kind of you

28:29  
and then you need dates on everything. So give me the dates for your Robotics Club, and then they should be in reverse chronological order in every section.

28:42  
So like farther things at the top.

28:45  
So yes, the No, the most recent at the top of each section. So, and you don't have any dates for your input, and yeah, and then your project, you could put, try to put months in years. That's just be consistent with that. And then if you want to, you do all, like, put all your dates the same, like you have here, like you can put them all on the right side, and they're out of the way. You can line them up right, justify them. This is what this person did. You

29:29  
Yeah, I would combine your certifications with your skills so you could have it up here and just go straight across with what those certifications are. You got a lot, but I know that's a challenge, yeah, trying to keep it no less than 10 point font so they can read it. I don't go too small. You have to on this this way. This is but probably, yeah, and I do like that. You're gonna have your information up here anyway, and then that this piece you can just keep it for that could be the top of the cover letter. So if they, if they allow you to upload a cover letter to introduce yourself, you can do that. And there's information how to do a cover letter on here too. Okay, I know, throw a lot at you. This is great. Yeah, it's just we got to get it. We want to make sure the most, we want to get it read it past if you have to go through ATS and it's you don't have dates, the other reason why those dates are important it is, you know how that says one to three years experience or whatever? It's collecting those dates and giving you credit for doing them. That's why you can put the skills here. But make sure you bet them in here as well, since it says, Oh, this is somebody who's done it more than one time, or, you know, I mean, gives you credit for the

30:47  
time. Since we have time, would you also be open to going through my LinkedIn?

30:51  
Let's see. Let's see if I have time.

30:54  
Do we have an hour? Or, yeah, I think we schedule an hour.

30:59  
I was double check, yep. Really good. Yeah, I know I had it back to back. I was just making sure. Sometimes they're half hour like, whoa.

31:07  
Do you want to open it on your end? What your LinkedIn? Yeah, Shine would show you

31:15  
I got too many things open. Yes, see, I

31:27  
all right.

31:37  
All right. One of the things, engineering, physics. Oh, going back, there was one other thing, where's your resume on the resume? I'm just gonna point this out. On this one, go ahead and separate your major from your degree, because it may be looking for straight up, Bachelor Arts, Bachelor of Science, and if it has in or whatever next to, I don't know if you did that or not, but just either comma or something between them, so that they can still see your major. But then this gets picked up without being attached to something. That was something that we did all this training, and they really were hitting on that. Yeah, so, and then that's it all, right. So for this, you've got your, okay, aspiring solutions in here, good. You've got what you want to do. And in fact, you could start with that if you wanted to, if you want to put it first, then people can see that you don't have your about section. So there should be something in here describing myself. Yes, there's it. Go back into your profile. It's not there. So,

32:50  
yeah, I I find it difficult. Yeah,

32:53  
you find it difficult to write that. Can I think about, you know how, like a cover letter is introducing you? I want to know the good thing, what it made with someone is better than a resume. Your resume is going to be highlighting your skills and your experience that LinkedIn can be when you're passionate about what you love to do, what, how you've done it, and what you're looking for. So, you know, there might be some good ones. If you go to there's probably some stuff in that, resources are networking about how to do it,

33:27  
that that would be helpful. And if you want to come back, if you want it, you want to do one and have me read it, feel free, you know, or someone can read it here, yeah, so, but that's when you can show your personality and also leverage that lower arts degree. You know, you're not just this technical person. What you know, what you can do with the people side too. And the communication is huge employers again. And so if someone does drive, you know, they read your resume, they want to look at your LinkedIn, they're going to learn about you. That's what you want people

34:01  
to know about you. Yeah, yeah.

34:05  
So that's missing. So that should be done. I your postings are great people this year in active different things. So right now, you don't have so I would, because you got resident assistant lab system. So all the things that are on your resume, you can cut and paste and

34:32  
put them here. Yeah, there they should be in the show all five experiences, yeah, yeah, all right. There you go, good. I don't know why it's formatted like that. Yeah,

34:51  
they changed it, but I like that you're doing skills for everything that's important. Because you get a lot of skills to check, and they say to do it right, yeah, and it puts in order for you.

35:19  
RVA Tech is a lot of stuff. I don't know. They have conferences.

35:24  
Oh yes, the thing you said last summer, yeah,

35:28  
that's a good place that's close to here that if there's something going on, they do a lot of and they always have student rates. But yeah, this is good. I it. You can put everything on LinkedIn. That's the good part

35:48  
education. So I tried to go through some of the LinkedIn learning courses. That's how I got those certifications. I need to, well, one thing I want to do is review those things, because I got those couple a bit ago, so, like, they're not fresh. And one time I did have someone's interviewer, yeah, yeah. And I didn't, I can fully,

36:10  
like, describe, so, yeah, right, anything on your resume or here means you want to talk about So, and that's a good thing to make sure everyone knows. Like, if you put on your resume, you got to be able to tell about it, and usually a story or how you used it, or, you know, so that's a really good way to prepare for interviews, is to go through your resume or whatever, and say, can I talk about this? What's the story? What did I learn from it? What did I achieve? And those are great answers for questions. And

36:45  
oh, it shows, it shows my interest that might be, you're like, I didn't know that. Yeah, I didn't know that. Schools, yeah.

37:05  
And for you know, they'll probably ask for some type of resume, or they might call it a CV, but it's basically a resume for grad school as well. Yeah, they do. So you can use it now, every time you see a job that you're applying for, you're going to go back to your resume. You're going to look at what do they want, you know? Okay, I've got it. I know how to do that. Is it worded in that resume the same way? Even if you have to kind of change up your wording a little bit to tailor it again, it's that match rate, right? So if it's looking for keywords, don't leave anything up for interpretation. So if you're looking at a job description, go back to your resume it doesn't read the same way. It's work intensive, yeah, but you'll get faster doing especially once you get out of the template, probably easier. Just straight up, either word, save it PDF, yeah, and just do it every time in every version, save it. And because you never know, we might want to come back to that version and then the cover letter you target to what they're looking for. And then you match up your strengths with, you know that, but I think it was good. You just need that about section on on your on your LinkedIn, and then you can carry cut and paste on stuff over to one network if you need to, if you haven't done that.

38:18  
Okay, great. I think that was the overall what I want to look at. So right now, this is like, how I've been tracking. So this is the Excel sheet I was talking about for schools, yeah, and then jobs are, like, kind of highlighted differently, things like that. I I would like to, like, populate this list as much as possible. Do you have any suggestions or like companies off your head? I can be looking forward. Um, I'll look into RVA tech and see, yeah, they have,

38:56  
because they do a lot their professional development, they have, like, meetups and stuff. They're probably gonna see slowing down for a little while closer to the holidays. Yeah, I'll keep

39:10  
going backward, because I try to put all in one place so under, because you just asked me question. You were saying, where to going back to job search, going to job search and tech. Some of these can be. These are we came up with this list is just, it's just a list, and that's regional, and more regional and around Virginia and then some national. These are just some of the ones that we found are, we have alumni So and, you know, just depending on what you want to do and that these are also very high, you know, Siemens hires a lot. These are, it's just a list, right? But it's something to show, something look at, maybe. But we worked on that because they're, they're high employee. Smaller places could be good too, though, because that's where most people work. It really is smaller, but I think that is something that would be useful. And then these are US tech hubs. It's

40:38  
okay. I'm up into multiple places, yeah, yeah. And this was just an idea, because I've been there, yeah. I like, I've been to LA too. I think LA would be interesting. But then LA is, LA is, it's busy and hard to live, yeah, but I I'm open to seeing different areas, even outside of the country.

41:03  
Yeah, so this might have some stuff on here that you hadn't seen. So,

41:14  
yeah, well, I think yeah, you're doing. You're doing great. Just keep talking. It's hard because you're so busy, but just carve out, like, Okay, I'm gonna work on whatever. Put it on your schedule. This is my time. I know you're doing that, yeah, but then maybe add that piece like, Okay, I'm gonna reach out to three people this week. I don't know, yeah, just see what happens. Yeah. And they don't always get back to you, but sometimes they will, yeah.

41:40  
I'm hoping that, like, maybe once breaks come around, I can, like, really concentrate, but then the fear is that once breaks around, it'll be, like, way too late,

41:50  
right? For Tech, if you're applying for jobs, this is the heavy time, yeah. It just is Yeah, and you're seeing your because then you're gonna start seeing maybe slow down and postings, but smaller than smaller organizations might start posting. Yeah, so the networking, that's why the network you say, we're certainly looking what other companies do you know? Of Well, the best people are the people working there. Talk about it. So, you know, check out, see where people are. You'll be surprised where you'll see a long night, and they're typically like to talk to students.

42:25  
And yeah, I'll probably be more you'll probably see me posting on one network,

42:32  
yeah, and you'll be meeting with Alex too

42:34  
on Monday,

42:36  
and y'all can talk about needs for you and using now what students are doing sourcing like network, using that as a source to find panelists and to find people come speak to their organizations or clubs. So, you know, you might be instrumental in helping some ideas on that too.

42:53  
There's a lot of social streams for the university, and so, like, I got like a couple clubs together, we're trying to create, like a program to connect these streams. So, like a lot of the students use like room me. So I need a way of like, of like, when someone posts on one network, the post will go into like room me automatically.

43:16  
Talk to Alex about that after he would love to hear your ideas, yeah, because he we want to you to solve problems for our students. And we want students, they gotta, you gotta be part of it to know what the problems are or what can be done, like innovate, right? You need to innovate. And so that's why he wants to speak to people like you.

43:35  
Yeah, we're just, just to let you know what's happening behind the scenes. We're creating this program because there's already like systems where, like, you can send an email, and then the email goes to like, Group Me or discord. And so we're trying to create that same system so, like, we have like a university email, maybe something on, like tri link, and so then whenever you want to send things out, the problem was, like, you guys would send things out to, like, a student leader who might graduate later, yeah? But like, in this way, you can send things out to this, like email, and then I'll send it out. It doesn't go away, yeah?

44:11  
I know it's, yeah, you get used to the new student leader, and they're like, they're gone. And then you're like, oh, yeah, we make, you know, that relationship, yeah,

44:19  
right. And so, so we're trying, we're trying to create that system so then you guys can send it to, like, the like, kind of just like a mass, yeah, I'll let you know, more

44:31  
pointed things. You know, that's why, sometimes I send the email like, Okay, I want it. I really appreciate everything. You know,

44:37  
I would appreciate that too. Don't worry. Okay, yeah,

44:42  
well, I'm glad you are, because I'm trying really hard. I want to get you know, yeah, more connections to the student organizations. Y'all are doing great work, and we need, we can be working together.

44:50  
Yeah, yeah. If you ever have more to send, like, feel free. There's, there's always something. And

44:57  
then I think I sent you that one that says it's for it's for internships that I don't it was done by university, like their computer science, yeah, they send an email. I get one every week, and it's for internship. So just telling you, you can, you know, help with your for your students. Let me see if I can find it quick.

45:20  
Can I take her candy? Yes, please. I've been like eyeballing it all day.

45:40  
And sometimes I'll pull from it from the newsletter. You know what I think I put it try to try to see what it looks like. I can't remember when I get things.

46:02  
I things.

46:16  
I know it's here somewhere. So I try to think what it's called. Oh, I know. I can go on Blackboard. I was called,

46:37  
I put on an internship. That's an internship board, but it's something interesting that they're doing

46:53  
this one. So it's, you can join this so it's and they go, they use simplify. Have you heard of that? It's like a job board, but they help them do it, and the list is pretty big. Let me see, I know I just want to see the email, and then I get an email once a month. So if you look here, these are all software engineering internship roles that they're collecting could give you an idea of companies for you, even if these are internships, like you might learn of a company didn't know about any of those, telling where they're or they are as well. So this is under what I just said. It's but it's done by the computer science club, and they they do it, and they share it. And they said, share it out. We want people to see it, so it's not like you're using their stuff. They're like, so this is, um, yeah, so they're their platform, and that is for anyone can want to access it. I just put under the data, tech and engineering into the job search area, and it's right here, got it. And even though they're just internships for you, it might give you some ideas to other companies, because you asked me, they're really tech heavy, but that you can do different there. I think there's different categories too, but, but the computer science department does it, so they probably more of

48:26  
those lines. I do have to head to my but, um, thank you so much. You're welcome. I'll let you know. All right,

48:35  
yeah, take care. Try to get some rest at some point,

48:39  
like a good 10 minute before you next. Yeah, see.

