0:08  
Hey, I know you guys have been busy because I looked at ms 325, and it looks pretty packed up. I just want to thank you all again for being the laboring aura, tremendously helpful.

0:29  
Yeah, I think, I think it was a peaceful moment, like I would like go in there after after classes. And then I one time I was there from like, five to 12, which is what I told you, work Friday, right? Also, I usually work on Fridays, Friday

0:59  
No, yeah. I mean, yeah, it's a good idea to make sure you have somebody who can check on you. If you're working alone,

1:10  
you check like, once an hour,

1:13  
yeah, if something happens, you think about

1:24  
with the person you're supposed to. We can send a copy, over. Yeah.

1:31  
accidentally open the quarrying

1:34  
that from my parents, because they always wanted to know where it was and when I was and then if I got home safe, And it's turns out, everyone kind of wants that information all over the

1:51  
place, not thinking, you know, maybe they can't go where, you know,

1:58  
it was a learned thing. It was, it didn't. It's not innate.

2:07  
Our class is going okay. Tired. You do look tired. Don't look tired.

2:13  
I have quite a lot to do. I still have to send you letter for grad apps. Yes, yeah, you wanted me to send him a letter of, like, the things I'm good, yeah?

2:31  
I mean, it's really helpful. I mean, if you've got a personal statement for yourself, I find when I'm writing recommendations, it's just really helpful to have all of that. And also, if I

2:39  
have any idea what you want, yeah, because you told us before. I'll tell you. I keep telling you, maybe you'll hear you could be anything you want, yeah? So what do you want? That's a hard it's a hard question. You shouldn't answer it anymore. I would never you know. Let's imagine I don't know if you're into dogs, I'm into dogs, and for me, the ultimate dog is a gun dog. For birds. You don't ask a bird dog, what do you want?

3:12  
He just wouldn't do that. He's already pointing at the answer is,

3:15  
I want to go hunting bird, but I'll take what comes. There's just stuff you should never answer, except formally and only when

3:28  
asked, much like a poodle wants to be in the water.

3:36  
There's there's a lot of Japan, yeah, there's a lot of I'm

3:42  
serious about outlook America current, the current version of America sucks. Yeah, okay, with a capital S. It is anti science, and they won, and they think it's time to dismantle all of science. And they may succeed, and they may not. I doubt that they will. This is not the first time this has been tried in 2005 it was tried in 1990 was trying, you know? So I go back historically and show you moments just into what I would call totals. The stupidity is not recognizing what the antecedents of your reward

4:37  
structure if there hadn't been a whole bunch of Russian scientists doing stuff like this and this, Vladimir's work, and people whose names you don't know, America is on the warpath with that stuff, and they want to have all these things, and they don't Want to invest in the people who bring it so get out of here, or they appreciate you. If you were in Europe, I went to Europe for the first time as a scientist. It was like, holy shit. It was hair doctor this. Can we get you a limo. Would you like a bear, you know? And it's, it's shocking. It's made me physically uncomfortable to be an object of reverence, because I was a wissenschafter in Germany, you know, it just was like, never heard of this. And it was like that, a little less, but like that in Japan, you were treated MDS were nice, we were respectful, but they're not like you. You are a scientist. Oh, wow, that's something that America never had, probably I'll never, will have, and you ought to feel what that feels like for a while. For like for a while for what you do, because you bring good things, right? So, you know, I always look at some top tier university in Japan, is Tokyo, but there are lots of others, and there is the Japanese MIT Al Qaida is not a bad place. Okay.

6:32  
know, I would probably pick Hokkaido. Yeah. I mean, like,

7:01  
you

7:28  
You know, all the things you want to do with your hands. He was good for but my double E uncle was like the smart one in the family. So by the time I was seven, I was going to be a double E, and I would there was one school in town that I knew of. It was the school that was case tech. They had a great double E, and I applied case and I didn't apply anywhere else because it never occurred to me they weren't going to let me yet. So I got in and I went and that was it.

9:47  
I don't, I won't have time to take you within this batch. And that's okay.

9:53  
Well, they you know that it's a body of knowledge thing. What do you know? And what do you know when you go to graduate school doesn't matter, because you're going to learn whatever it is. The problem with what do you know is those exams point out what you don't know. And if there are departments, thank God. We don't have a lot of them here, but we do have some. I'll paraphrase it. You call yourself a physicist. You can't call yourself a physicist if you don't know is XYZ. So I think this place is woefully deficient in anything thermodynamic. We don't teach thermodynamics. We don't teach it as something that ought to be in your bones. We just don't, you took?

10:41  
Yeah, I took, I took a dedicated course in college, but I don't think I had a thermodynamics course

10:51  
in we, we do. There's classical thermal it's this interesting. Don't worry

11:02  
about here. Possible, which because I taught that class here, and we spent more time on steps, but I

11:13  
think in part, because everyone assumes you already have a working familiarity,

11:16  
and because physicists as a class have handed that subject off to chemists and chemical engineers, and said, Here, you take care of all the stuff. We don't care about, heat pumps, you know, all the various engine cycles and all that stuff that that engineers care about. But we don't have a lot of departments that like if you went to chemistry for graduate electrochemistry,

11:52  
organic chemistry, how much inorganic chemistry? Synthetic inorganic? And the answer is, none, none, none, none. But you will ace physical chemistry, because you know that, right? Chemistry,

12:06  
because you know that basically quantum, it's all quantum as applied,

12:13  
as applied to molecules. So the plan is to apply to graduate schools, and then I'll apply the job, and then if I don't get in, then I'll, like, study up, take the GRE next year and then reapply. That's the plan. Yeah.

12:28  
The problem is support get in, is you'll get in so brown might want you, but they may not give you a fellowship and going to graduate school on your own money. You going to graduate school on your own money.

12:43  
You if you're in, if you're in the hard sciences, I would suggest that unless you're just going for a Master's, they should be supporting at least your tuition.

12:52  
Yeah, I would only go in if I had support. Yeah. So,

13:02  
yeah, it is a little less subsidized than it's cheap. So here a master's is kind of optional, and you maybe you need to do it. Maybe you don't. Maybe you learn something along the way. Maybe you don't. So that very few departments support

13:18  
a master's, yeah, oftentimes you get it on, on your on your path to a pH I

13:23  
never took a master's, and the reason is, we were duty baskets when I was little, and a Master's was a sign that you didn't pass the qualifying exam at the highest level. And so even though we I have enough credit to add a Masters in math, I never added it because it's because it would have put the MS in there and at that time it would have

13:46  
said, Oh, you didn't cut it. Couldn't

13:49  
cut it. Didn't cut it. Stupidly competitive kid. Do not be with me. Never be like me. I am. I'm everything you should never be because I was too competitive as a kid. I didn't get it. What you want to be is highly cooperative. That's what counts. So the best departments for you, given what I've seen in you, would be the better equipped department, places where you don't have to say, we don't have one of those school up the road has that William and Mary is kind of better than we used to be when I first got here. We'd have shit aging, I mean, really ancient sem in biology, but it really wasn't an SEM. They could do anything on we just didn't have anything, and we are better now. Physics had Jack costler's magnet, and that was from USF. Us,

15:15  
the shop was there. I remember what small hall used to look like before the wing was added,

15:25  
you probably don't remember, there was only one lab in the entire basement, apart from Jack's lab and vols little NMR, and that was I had all three labs the right hand side. As you walk out for the load, i of a lab for

15:56  
that, he had a quartz two furnace, which we took over and operated after

16:10  
he stopped using it in 1992 probably, if you wanted to be an experimental because you'd have to Go to JLab or NASA to do your experiments.

16:22  
Yeah, and I guess the other thing I'd mention is say, yeah, don't, don't apply to anywhere you can't imagine yourself living or working. Yeah, if just don't, don't waste your time applying to something you know you're not gonna want. I mean, that sounds obvious, worst case, but they'll let you in, yeah? I mean, you'll have it, and then you gotta go.

16:42  
But you will feel obliged. Yes. So where do you want to live? Counts, if

16:56  
you like seafood, yeah, yeah. Never been to the Seattle area, but it's, it's rainy.

17:07  
Of Washington. Great school for a lot of stuff. Top tier nuclear physics in fusion, not so much, but fission, yes. And their top tier protein proteomics is protein proteomics. They had. Buddy Ratner had the institute up there for 30 years, and he built it a thing that has only one competitor, maybe two, that I know of, and that's Broad Institute in Boston, and maybe the Magnet Lab in Tallahassee, because he's got a really fabulous Yeah, they have a lot of great stuff anyway. They also have mass spec. I made a list,

17:54  
if you would like to Yeah, I haven't seen it yet. Yeah, I've

18:00  
showed Dr manner, then Dr Mann actually made some suggestions on on the list I could show you as well. Do you want to build stuff? Yeah, I'm more of a device.

18:20  
Yeah. What'd you do with the Marines? It was more of a leadership last weekend. Thing I applied, yeah,

18:36  
ar, yeah. That would have been, I call that an M 16 because I fired basically that rifle

18:47  
50 years ago. Anything heavier? No, this is,

18:58  
you could see that. Yeah, retreat, Target, safety, yeah.

19:09  
The thing to know is they all think of themselves. Course, all of them, not just the top ones, yeah, and they are, I mean, no school is any better than the student who goes

19:20  
to it. I want to, like, fill out these two columns before I start sending it out to people. But I just haven't, like, sat down and filled them out with, like, the interest in the programs that each of the schools have and that the deadlines. Of course,

19:34  
know that you don't know.

19:38  
I That's a great question. I

19:40  
know everything,

19:42  
the short answer is everything, but that's not

19:44  
practical, no, no, but I do have, I do have, like, a simplistic answer and like that would be like, I like the idea of, like machine learning, neural networks, but then also like device physics, hardware integration, electrical engineering, like circuitry, things like that. I think those things are fun. Computer Vision is fun. Or image processing, that's fun. There's there's things that that would be interesting, yeah, and then

20:14  
you're tailor made for companies like Raytheon, you know, it's got a new name ATK. I mean, you're made for the satellite observation, slash image application, slash detector world given that list when you say electrical engineering, I didn't hear you imply power engineering, because that's where the future is. You want AI and ML, you better have some data centers. You want data centers, you better have some way to power them. You want power you have to have some generator and some network of distribution, what we call the grid, and all of that is double E, that Virginia Tech ought to be on your list, because they have an excellent maybe one of the top five or 10 power engineering groups is up there.

21:16  
All that, you know, but it sounds like you you really want to make you want to work with and make a device.

21:27  
Here's the thing you want to make one or do you want to bang them out and sell them to people? Because I love making things, but I don't like banging out copies of things to sell to people. How I know is I ran the company that did it. I ran a company that banged out sputter and etch tools and sold them to people who used them, like IBM and Intel and other people. There was no Intel at the time. Well, there was, but it didn't buy many of our tools. They weren't there yet. Well, they were, they were there, but they, they this was dry processing when it first started. But I don't like making cluster tools to sell to industry. You like making new devices. I like making something that's never been done before. Yeah, I like making an ion implanter, but I don't want to make a beam implanter for sale to Intel. They buy those things by the by the dozen. Yeah.

22:27  
So that's why I think applied physics also is an option, because there's also, like, there's like a hardware aspect to apply physics where, like, there's always, like, a question of, oh, okay, like now, let's make a device that can fabricate microwave circuits for

22:45  
us or something, or operate in a specific environment, or, yeah,

22:49  
or can help us detect some thing in

22:52  
microwave, yeah. Quasi optical electronics is a place you could be.

22:58  
Just ask Seth, you're in the you're in a good group

23:03  
for that. If Seth wanted you in his group as a graduate student, given what you like to do, you would jump at that, because he's doing interesting stuff. Now, microwave comes in a lot. Microwave comes in a lot of flavors, and one of the flavors is extremely high power microwave, what's called HBO, right?

23:26  
Yeah. And then there's things that, like, I just haven't been able to get to, like in my undergrad, like the signal analysis, things that you've been trying to teach me on the side that's

23:34  
ubiquitous. I mean, the reason I pointed signal analysis is all these books are, if it's time dependent, that's where you go. If it's static, you go to the lower shelf. Down here the firm is, it's time dependent, but it's slow time dependence. So, yeah, I mean that stuff is, that's a major tool that can be applied, will be applied is applied to everything.

24:02  
Much like you said, you're interested in machine learning and and artificial intelligence, I think it's you have no choice at this point that will be incorporated into your curriculum. I think wherever you go,

24:17  
there's really interesting meta question in here, which is to what degree you also want to be. You want your body of knowledge to be relatively bulletproof against the IML. And there's almost no, I don't

24:36  
know. I don't know if there's a place to hide.

24:38  
Really, they all that gory, wonderful stuff that makes up signal analysis at the level that I love it is going to be is can be swept away by just brute force recognition. If you give me a matrix that's a terabyte by a terabyte, I can pretty much put every macroscopic object in the world in one of those cells, yeah.

25:05  
But at our current level of AI, there hasn't really been like, well, I don't know what they're doing in black boxes of like, high tech industries, but like, there hasn't really been pushes for like, high level artificial intelligence, like signal analysis,

25:23  
things there is, yeah, I would be shocked if there

25:28  
were. I mean, let me All right, take you back. Have you seen hunt for the Red October? Oh, you need to see. It's a great movie. It's really dated. It's 2025, years old. But even 25 years ago, the sonar operator in there had a library of biologicals that he could map the incoming signal against him. No, it was a biological,

25:53  
highly calibrated year.

25:54  
Well, that was him, but he didn't need that. Also. There were what was hidden in there was that he was directed to think biological by the computer that was picking up that signal was already in the sub at the time. So they've gone a long way down the road with this. And yeah, they're doing AI ML is in there already. So there's a whole class of thing called Identification Friend or Foe IFF, which is the firmware box built into the aircraft that takes all the radar inputs and and gives you an alert when that's not a friendly object. So, and how do they do that?

26:36  
Weird, my my phone is responding to your voice.

26:41  
Oh, yeah. In fact, that happens to me while I'm watching television and the news. It's the anchor man, and then it'll be a text to you that

26:51  
happens to me a lot. I've been in danger of sending voice messages of like random programming to a number of people, probably including you, because you were the last person I was texting with,

27:02  
last person you texted is going to get the six o'clock news. So all that there is, it's there, and the there are. Person you want to talk to about this won't talk to you about it because he's still carries his clearance, but I'm not cleared, so I can talk to you about this. There's a whole boatload of stuff that is everything from target acquisition to fire control that has AI ml built into the firmware of the operator system. First one of those, first one of those. You ever watch a world war two movie, Guy is cranking the guns, the anti aircraft guns, there were platters that went into that gear set that were classified cut by the military to put the operating envelope of the aircraft in. It would these were wiener filters rendered as mechanical objects so that this guy would would not have to lead. He could keep the crosshair on the plane, and the gear set would do all the rest, to put the round where it needed to be, where the plane was going to be by the time the round got to that altitude.

28:16  
So you didn't have to do some like math on the fly. It's about that far out. It's going about that quickly.

28:23  
If you're the tight end and you're going in the end zone for the pass, you're not doing any math. You got two rules, if the ball is ascending, run backwards, if the ball is falling, run forwards. Those are your only two mathematical rules. The rest of it is all automatic. Anyway. The automatic was done, this is world war two man, and it was all classified, and it was all Norbert Wiener, who, at the time, I think, was maybe a 20 year old mathematician, or 21 year old mathematician working at MIT. And so it's in there. You just don't know it, because

29:01  
they don't work with Hilbert spaces as well. I'm trying

29:05  
to he was the Kolmogorov of the USA, so the answer probably longer off was yes. No matter what yes, no matter what math question you asked, the answer is yes. Be like ask him,

29:19  
because I think I think I ran into him when I was taking real analysis a few times,

29:25  
wiener and can change. There's a Russian there's famous theorems and step back and so on and so forth.

29:32  
All attributed to him, all but these were all mechanical.

29:36  
They were mechanical. They were some electromechanical, but mostly mechanical, because some of the bad if it was on a ship, it was electromechanical. If it was sitting on the end of a jeep, probably totally mechanical. So the guns that you would tow behind the Jeep were basically six inch or four inch, or rarely larger, shells that would explode in altitude. Anyway. We're digressing because you, you asked, Does the military do this? And the answer is, hell yes, they do this. Yeah, yeah. So you could, and again, you could get a job at Livermore or Los Alamos or but if you don't have a PhD, don't, yeah, yeah, you won't like it. You get a job at Intel. I mean, there's a lot of places you can get a job with a bachelor's degree, you won't like

30:34  
it, considering to work at like, some of the companies that make our machines, I think that putting those, like broker, early things like

30:43  
that, yeah. I mean, those are, I mean, depending on what you want to do, that you can definitely have a decent career being a technician thermo.

30:53  
Thermo has bought everybody that I don't even know. I mean, does PE part of the thermal I don't think, I think they're part of the thermo. Thermo used to be a company called thermo electron, and then they turned into just thermo, and they like, like, Autodesk. They just bought up everybody. So Nick works there. You could talk to Nick. What's it like for him?

31:19  
Yeah, because they bought nanoscience. Yeah, right. They,

31:22  
they, I mean, they're gonna, it's just what happens.

31:25  
I think Brooker is its own thing, right there.

31:28  
They're things too. I mean, Brooker, they're huge. They're big now, and they do, they don't just do NMR, they don't just do Raman, they do everything. Very little competition

31:42  
left, but they will, they will train you. They will train you.

31:47  
They'll pay for your P and they'll pay

31:49  
for it. Okay? They might if you're if you're looking for a position that requires,

31:55  
the easiest thing to do would be get a job in a company like that, yeah, in a major city like San Francisco, Chicago, New York, Pittsburgh, etc, and then go to the local school to work, because we've done it here for for Philip Morris now called we've had two or three people have worked for hinders here, done their PhD while they had full time jobs at

32:22  
Philip Morris, you said they were working the vaping problem, right?

32:25  
Yeah. He worked on nickel. He worked on a heater, heater, which was he was working the metallurgical problem. Back when e cigarettes were gonna be a thing.

32:37  
We're gonna help help people be healthy.

32:42  
It's sad. Anyway, companies are good to work for up to a point, but you're too smart to get in a box, a technical box, and stay there, you're going to end up running the goddamn place. So day one, if you go work for a company, have your eye on the C suite and pick the position you want. That's good, because you're going to end up there, because the leadership of most companies is woeful. You know, I take Hewlett Packard and Carly, who was an English major, who ended up running Hewlett Packard directly into the damp ground, you know, after, after David Packard, Bill Hewlett, you end up with that for your CEO and said you would have been better, way better, not just a little better, way better.

33:37  
Was that story dramatized? I can't

33:39  
remember. No, okay. Carly ran for presidency. And oh, that's all Carly Fiorina. It's coming back to me now I come you know, you're too young to have given a shit. I mean, I cared, because that was one of my favorite companies.

33:56  
So So you were, you were familiar with her before she ran for president.

34:00  
Oh, yeah, I was familiar with her when she was president of Hewlett Packard

34:04  
ruining your investments all along the way.

34:08  
Not just that, just Hewlett Packard is a story I love. The more I know about it, the more I love it. There would be no Silicon Valley had it not been for David Packard and Bill Hewlett. There would be no Hewlett Packard, had it not been for the Dean of Engineering at Stanford. At that time, a man named Tiernan who was the Dean, he was a double E who ascended to the dean of engineering, and single handedly, helped those guys start that company in the Willow Grove garage that they lived in, and made sure they had the right orders and helped them to not only tweak the design, but tweak the price for their first Hewlett Packard oscillator, which was an Audio oscillator, a frequency tunable audio oscillator with adjustable power. Those units made that company, and that was everybody wanted one. I have, in fact, tiernans book was on the shelf. I didn't think you picked it.

35:13  
But is it in I see, or is it small,

35:16  
I don't know, maybe in a box. Now, the things that are still mine, but it's called Radio fundamentals. It's my one of my favorite books. I also have Vladimir zworkins book, electron tubes. That's cool before he invented television. So, you know, I like to collect oddball books I know venerate the people who are worth venerating back to where to go to school. Go you know, if they pay you to go there, go there, because it isn't going to matter. Yeah, that's as long as they have reasonably good equipment. VCU is a pretty good school. It's better than ODU in terms of the equipment suites they have,

35:59  
awesome. They're part of the program. Yeah,

36:04  
and they have, they're not famous for physics, but they're pretty good in engineering now, in their 25th year, and, you know, reminds me I should get with Henry McGee. I helped them start that engineering school. I'll be damned I work with Henry. McGee was its, its originating Dean, and then I worked with with Robert motto, who was the Dean, who took over from Henry, so that that was all started to bring semiconductors here, and we did it.

36:36  
I wouldn't recommend Intel right now.

36:38  
I wouldn't, I would not recommend Mike, are you Mormon? No, stay away from micron. All right, because you're not going to make the C suite at micron unless you're a Mormon. I

36:50  
didn't realize, okay, they were

36:53  
I I consulted to form that company. Okay, the story on that is a potato cake. And he lived in Boise, Idaho. His name was Jr Simplot.

37:07  
All of the scans so far as a company, because you're from the West, yeah, that's Yeah. That sounds familiar.

37:14  
Simplot was second only to Cargill as a major agricultural behemoth. All the potatoes that you eat from McDonald's, most of the potatoes you eat in the army, simpler. Anyhow, Jr was a cowboy, and JR died, I don't know, 20 years ago, in the early 90s, and he ran this company, and one of my friends worked there. And he came to my friend came to me when I was at Princeton because I had written a book plasma etching for semiconductors, and said, Let's go take you to dinner and let's consult. So I went through their first process for their first DRAM, which, at the time, was just called RAM, right. Okay, there was no D ramp, so I went through their ramp process with him, and I think I charged him dollars for that

38:07  
council. That's a bargain at many 1000 times really good

38:14  
at Princeton's best restaurant, because he was a connoisseur boy, I think we had, at the time, probably $150 bottle of Burgundy, which was my favorite, anyway, long story short, that entire company, my crown was Wade, blocking his last name. I'll think of it after we talk. And his brother. There were two brothers who were out there and had the idea to form this company, and they needed money, and it was big money, meaning $750 million which today you let us at the time, it was real money. And Jr had real money because he ran this potato thing, and it was a handshake deal. Wow. Ray told me about the state got all the C suite people in the room said, boys, I hear this semiconductor thing is going to be a big deal. Let's get into it. Let's get in that. Was it. So on a handshake, he provided seven, 50 million for the for Wade and his brother to start this company, wow. And they started the company, I think Additionally, in Idaho, because Simplot wanted to keep an eye on it. And Ray, my friend Ray, was the guy tasked with keeping an eye on that company initially. So I was on the phone with him constantly. They're about to do this, they're about to buy that. Who makes the best what this? So that company was started now, they were Mormon, and they hired a bunch of Mormons. And Jr was not a Mormon. He was a cop, right? He really was a potato field. I started,

39:58  
I know the time started at $1

39:59  
an hour or something, and ended up with this $14 billion a year company. We're at the time 14 billion. So that's a hell of a trajectory. Anyway for you is that micron has a plant here, but they're really much more heavily invested in the plants they're building, which are not here, so I think I would recommend, yeah.

40:26  
And the only reason I say Intel, not Intel, is because they've, they've just been sloughing people right

40:31  
right now in videos being shorted by the same guy. You're kidding. No, remember, have you ever seen the movie? Big Short.

40:40  
Yeah. Great movie, that guy. Have you seen that movie? You should watch it

40:43  
too. Great movie. That guy is shorting Nvidia right now. That's disconcerting. It is because that's one smart stuff, a bitch. And I have Nvidia stock. I'm thinking it's in the green at the moment, my bottom line on that stock is green. I think it had taken my profits.

41:03  
I mean, it's is the calculation that the this, this AI stuff, is just overblown.

41:11  
That's his, his perspective. I'm sorry I can't remember his name, but Parkinson, that's Wade's last name, Wade, Parkinson, the two brothers.

41:21  
I thought Nvidia was doing not just the AI stuff, but then, like, like, a bunch of other companies are trying to build things from NVIDIA GPUs and a

41:31  
whole bunch of other people around it.

41:36  
Can they hold their sole provider title at the moment, which can be done. China's doing it with stacks. So, you know, let's suppose I can do, I don't know. I have a teraflop on this chip, and they provide me with 10 or 100 teraflops. I can stack teraflop chips vertically, and that's where China

41:59  
is. You just have to manage, I guess, the heat pretty well and

42:03  
well, and you have to manage the heat on that single step too. And you know so that thermal management is part of

42:12  
Nvidia's advantage at the moment,

42:16  
always comes down to thermal, dynamic, the only energy in the world that is doesn't have much entropy attached to it. Wait for it. Gravity. Yeah, that's why gravity is the king of energies, right? Black holes are so good at what they do because they don't dissipate Much, much of that energy on the

42:36  
way, very slowly, and that was only recently discovered,

42:39  
until you hit the edge of a black hole, then dissipation is an issue, but you get to fall freely for a long time anyway, where we're not giving advice, so tell us, Kid where to go. Where'd you I think you went here.

42:56  
I went here. I applied to

42:59  
it. He knows a lot of stuff about a lot of stuff,

43:03  
but I I only applied to, I believe it was seven schools, three of which I considered safety, that I didn't get into. And I came here. I got

43:13  
into the I went to Ohio State, largely for what I told you, they offered me the best support back. I could have gone to brown, yeah, but they didn't offer me as much of a support package. I think. Wasn't as good then as it was. You know, things come and go. Brown in the 50s was like, holy shit. Brown is really, really good. Then by the time I graduated, it was brown because all the really good guys had died or retired or whatever, they didn't rebuild their expertise in the areas they were famous for. And at the time that I graduate, Ohio State was was on the ascent.

43:54  
So, like I and I think this, I mean, I came here in part for condensed matter physics, yeah, and I don't know if I could recommend that now, no, we got nobody, so I could definitely consider the department you're going into. And I think, I think looking at the research opportunity,

44:12  
more or less it's dynamic. Yes, by the time you finish, it might be slightly different than by the time you start. So you're looking at the first derivative of that department, one application records,

44:23  
when it will come down to applications, though, like, I think I'm naturally going to be like robotic in a sense, area, I'm just going to robotic program. No, no, no,

44:35  
you will operate robotically. Like, yeah, I

44:39  
will be just applying and and seeing what comes back, because I it's a hard time right now. I've heard for grad school, and then, in addition to that very hard time, in addition to that, I'm highly doubtful with my credentials. So

44:57  
you shouldn't be shelf your doubt.

44:59  
You're, a solid performer. You got a three point right? 3.12 that's adequate. It says I can learn stuff, yeah. And if the perspective is, I do better in stuff I care about and stuff I don't care about that you make me do I prefer that? You know, I have graduated so many four point twos in my life who ended up doing nothing

45:30  
that you wouldn't want to hire back or something. I mean, who do I

45:33  
look at that have the fire and the curiosity and the relentlessness and the ability to handle disappointment, and the ability to go back and try something else, and the creativity to think nobody's ever put one of these in this mix. I think I'll try that stuff. You cannot put a grade on it, and those are the people I want around me.

46:00  
It's more. It's more than just your your GP and your, I mean,

46:05  
GPA is a nice measure of how well you test, you know? And as I said, if you drill testing, you're going to do better when you take this. We don't drill testing. That's not something we do here. And we do kind of have problem in these problem sets. They're arbitrary, right? For every problem he gives you that has a fairly straightforward he's given you only problems that he knows how to grade, which is a bad set of problems, right? The guy you really want to work for isn't him or me. You want to work for Fermi,

46:44  
like the guy who gives you the the impossible problem, gives

46:48  
you stuff, no, not impossible stuff where the grade is. What's your approach to this problem? How many piano tuners are there in Chicago? That's like the quintessential Fermi problem. The it has no right answer that can't be determined by the Society of chicago piano tuners or something. But even that's not going to give you the correct answer, it's got it's all about the approach. So Fermi was that teacher. I just read this. Do you get MIT magazine? No, I don't. I do because they think I'm an alum, because I've taken so many of their classes. Well, I've taken down 25 of their classes. I love MIT, quantum one. If you've taken it here, you should compare it to the 2016 not the 2013 not the 2020 the 2016 version taught by Barton fieldbuck. And you compare that class to anything you've had here, and you'll say, why would I take this anywhere else from anywhere else? This guy's amazing. Anyway, the MIT magazine has a piece. The alumni has a piece on Millie Jessel House, who was like a huge hero of mine. I knew her personally. That's awesome. She's Holy shit, Millie was Millie, and her husband was no slouch, but her husband was not Millie. Millie was Millie. She was just fucking amazing. And she attributes the whole thing to one or two years she spent with Fermi in class. So she had him for class.

48:28  
I mean, you've, you've heard of the Fermi problem, right? That's

48:32  
what I just said, yeah, how many piano that? That's a Fermi graduate level class, right? There? Just how, how are you going to parse this problem? You know, What? What? What sources of data are you going to look up cheating? I could ask that. I'd probably get a reasonable answer out of Claude. I don't know. Have you ever

48:53  
I've never tried to ask. I'm going

48:58  
to get chat instead. Use chat GPT and answer the following question, how many piano tuners are there in the city of Chicago, Illinois? Haven't you been asked this 5000 times? I killed it by talking to kid. How many piano tuners in Chicago, Illinois.

49:28  
So there's their answer, 155,

49:36  
the problem is first time that's been asked, right? And that's the problem. The first time you asked that question. It's interesting.

49:47  
Like, like, how many, how many bricks are on William and Mary campus?

49:51  
That's a tough one. I can tell you how many went into ISC, 123, because Wayne, I asked Wayne, oh, you he I told him, I'm going to ask you when it's done. And he kept track. In fact, there's a pallet of ISC four leftover bricks on the loading dock to go out.

50:14  
Yeah, you would count up the buildings, and then you would approximate, like, average brick per building, and then you would compare the sizes of the building, and then size the buildings in comparison to each other. And that's

50:27  
a pretty good answer, and that's how you do it. And you ask, are there bricks underneath the bricks, or are the bricks only the face? And how many bricks per square foot?

50:36  
Yeah, assume only the bricks you could see.

50:39  
That's the one you want to ask. How many bricks Can I see? The other question nobody's ever answered for me is, how many fasteners were used in this building? Screws, wow, nuts, bolts and nails.

50:54  
That's a tough that's another tough one. That's really

50:58  
tough. And you know, because

50:59  
you have to have to have an idea of how things are constructed a priori.

51:04  
This is aluminum frame and not wood frame, so no nails. It's tough. It's a

51:10  
tough question. How many people can I ask prior to giving? I mean, because

51:17  
the correct answer might be to, if you have access to it, go to the Skanska bill of lading and their invoices. Yeah.

51:27  
Part of the Fermi problem, I think, is being resourceful. Unlike Where are you going to get your where you source your information, right?

51:34  
So this is a really interesting this is how you set up problems. I mean, there is a lake, and the lake is so many miles this way, and so many miles this way, how many fish are in it. And if you have to do some rough answer to that in order to end to answer a detailed biological survey question. So these are the kinds of things that people are looking at.

52:03  
They don't do this. But I think, but especially with the world of prompt engineering, I think this manner of thinking is going to be very important for, I guess, utilizing these tools effectively

52:15  
there won't, I mean, prompt engineering is, I think, a short

52:19  
lived effing hope. So.

52:22  
No, no prompt engineering, short lived, but like, we do have to, like, consider the logic in which we're asking our chat bots questions. You know, understand, yeah,

52:36  
10 years from now, your chatbot will be smart enough to factor in human frailty.

52:41  
No, not just, not just for that, but like, there are, there are, like,

52:50  
we only know the goals in which we're doing. A situation, for example, there's like, a library of resources. And this library resources is Google, physical libraries, chatbots, whatever, but you specifically, as a scientist, want to know how to make your machine work, but there's a library of resources that already knows how to make your machine work, but it doesn't know that you don't know how to get There.

53:19  
Over time that will get

53:22  
the Chatbot never gets worse. It's on an ascending forever. Yeah, it will compensate for my ignorance. It already does chat. When I ask chat, it often comes back with a clarifying question or do saying, what is it you really want to know, blah, blah, blah. And that's chat. Chat is like,

53:46  
Yeah, but there are people who use these AI systems, even though, like the AI system, it's like bringing a horse to water. It's like, hey, like, you can try this, you can try this. But, like, they don't, like, they have this library, but they don't know how to properly, like research in the library to get their machine to work. So I think understand less, is why I took in a philosophy courses to better, like, understand how to ask and like, consider like questions for the goals in which I'm researching. You know, yeah,

54:18  
but as people like you ask questions, and people like me ask questions, and people like him ask questions, this thing will aggregate more and more styles of questions, and it'll know. It'll know, oh, here's a person using words that they appreciate. The structure of the library. I'm going to go inquire for the answer. They're going to know your frailties or your strengths. This thing already knows me, Yeah, I'm pretty scary, yeah, and I'm impatient with bad

55:01  
answers, so you've been you've been helping with the training all along.

55:06  
You know it irritates me a little that I can't intervene and train directly. I put yourself in learn mode because I'm going to teach you something now, but I know that it's always in learn mode. That's how I don't have to say that, but it's all that's common, and I don't know

55:26  
where it's going. It's very hard, it's very hard for me to see clearly into the future. Well, everybody, I mean, that's always the case, yeah, being, you know, the arrow of time. Was it a

55:40  
and he was a catcher for the Yankees. Yeah, it's gonna get harder and harder to see the future, because it's gonna be coming faster. So that magic in bed. Question is, what do you think is going to persist, and what skill set can you get that will make you one of the survivors in the workplace, and what's the consequence if you're not there? That's a world I don't see quite

56:10  
how it works economically or Well, I

56:14  
mean, okay, take your favorite science fiction show, which is going to be Star Trek, sure. Okay, so you're in your you're one of the crew on that ship. You've got a few specific assigned duties which are pretty much irrelevant because the

56:31  
computer is pretty awesome.

56:33  
Knows what's about to break, and it's already ordered up that part and told you how to fix it. So what do you do with the other 23 hours of the day? And pretty much go to the holiday complain, order up food on the automatic food maker,

56:51  
and explore space

56:59  
so you're not bored because you're on a starship. But the fact is, you're going to be bored that starship because you're not going to have a whole lot of shit to do. So if you had stayed home on Earth, same thing

57:12  
like you are, we're going to run into the the old, the idle hands, or the devil's playground sort of problems. Because I the older I get, the more I kind of believe that's true for myself. What does that mean? I know. Have you heard that phrase, the idol idle hands are the devil's playground?

57:30  
By Jesuits, daily daily message.

57:37  
I think the basic idea is that if nobody has nothing to do, they're gonna find trouble or make trouble.

57:45  
Yeah, problems, whatever you whoever you are, your problems are going to be just as serious as anybody else's. And

57:51  
you can say a lot of bad things about work, but work keeps you busy, and it's typically not

57:56  
boring. I'm in the studs Circle School on work. Studs wrote a book called working, and he said, it's the only thing humans can do eight hours a day, every day.

58:07  
I think that's true. I think that's

58:10  
true. You know, people say, No, I could have sex eight hours a day.

58:13  
I can hydrate Well,

58:18  
baseball games, no, you can't. The only thing people can do for eight hours every single day is work and maybe sleep,

58:27  
but that's interrupted.

58:34  
Do you Do you know any, like, maybe your past graduates, or like any friends who have like companies that are looking for for workers, or

58:43  
I'll keep an ear out. That's a good question. That's a very good question. Probably let me the

58:50  
problem is, most of my past graduates are pretty well along.

58:56  
Yeah, most of the people I know went into like national labs or universities, to be quite honest, I don't have a lot of people in that in that space. One

59:05  
of my guys was entrepreneurial, but I think he's managing things now, that's a good question. The real question is, do you want to be what do you want to do? Yeah, that's key, because you might not like what you do. You don't want to code. I can tell you that my son in law runs coder groups in San you from he lives here, runs coding groups in Santa, Barbara and in India. And the one in India is huge, and they are mostly at ready,

59:37  
cause they're codes. Yeah, yeah.

59:41  
Codes pretty well, and GitHub has pretty much the answer to almost anything, except, if you want to make an AI to do what this company does, which is middleware. I see, so they're in a space that they're probably their main competitor would be Cisco, but they're in the optimization middleware game, where they help companies use their first How do you know what your assets are doing? So we measure all your asset deployment at any given time. And then second, how could you do it better? How many fetches did you just do on your on your cluster,

1:00:22  
kind of like, like an

1:00:24  
algorithm, how many spinning reads? How many non spinning reads? All that stuff is all in there. And now the question is, if you write yourself an MI to analyze it and do it automatically and optimize automatically. What fraction of your own workforce do you put out of business because optimization of hardware resources is the game software. That's what software does.

1:00:55  
And I guess if you can figure out, if you can figure out what to do with all these future unemployed people, that would be a good way.

1:01:00  
No one has figured that out, but you know, they you first start with a basic minimum wage and basic income,

1:01:08  
yeah, the UBI, right.

1:01:11  
And then you add some demand structure that says we need you to do XYZ three times a week, four hours.

1:01:20  
So with my experiencing in nursing home recently, which I the big takeaway is that it's just basically a way to warehouse people. I I worry that we're just going to be in the business of just warehousing people, old people, well, young people, soon

1:01:41  
you're going to arrange them. They're going to go up on the upper pastures once you come down to the lower pasture. Anyhow. Yeah, this is an issue. This is social issue for all time. But I guess I

1:01:58  
haven't answered your question. I don't know where to tell you to go, because I, in some ways, I can't, but graduate schools are not a bad place to look. Yeah,

1:02:07  
school is better than the student who goes to it. You can go to Harvard and turn that into a waste

1:02:17  
of time and energy and money, or you could go to Purdue, or you're not thinking about Iowa and Kansas, these are good schools. Don't put them on the list.

1:02:27  
I'm just saying as an example, like there's

1:02:30  
any state school is a pretty good school. I mean, I,

1:02:33  
I got accepted to Montana State University, which, which is not a bad school

1:02:40  
if you wanted to work diocotron, plasma tools, you had the best guy in the country, and he unfortunately died of cancer.

1:02:53  
But yeah, just as an example, even in Podunk Montana, you can, yes, you can find some pretty awesome opportunities. Montana.

1:03:01  
Well, actually, the surface physics groups up there were really good too, back talking 20 years ago, but they had some really good people.

1:03:12  
So, yeah, don't, yeah, don't. Don't exclusively shoot for the moon, because the moon is moving.

1:03:19  
I mean, the moon is being led in a lot of places. Depends on what you want and what resources you want to come in.

1:03:27  
But yeah, I totally expect that the competition for graduate applications is going to be pretty stiff this year, I think, especially as there's funding issues coming down the pike.

1:03:39  
Yeah, well, we don't have an American misadventure in Southeast Asia. Otherwise, I'd say there will be overwhelming applications.

1:03:47  
Nobody's trying to draft you just yet, you have the exact opposite

1:03:52  
problem. I think, I think graduate schools are going to have a problem because they're trimming admits. Physics is looking at fewer, looking at fewer admits. There's a resource problem that says we can't afford to pay the tuition and stipend for too many

1:04:09  
students. That's, that's, that's not a virtuous cycle. That's just going to it is

1:04:13  
a collapse. It's a collapse. This is a there's a chaotic attractor at zero. Yes, it's going to crush a lot of departments. I mean, I talk to Princeton every two

1:04:26  
weeks. Are they? I assume they're in the similar boat as everyone else. They're trimming

1:04:30  
admits and they're supporting. The guy in charge of that plasma physics graduate program is still nominally on campus, but he never comes in. He works at home, and he's depressed and he's not feeling too good about the next couple of years, and the program is under assault. I just heard from Saskia general atomic, which is San Diego, that that's program is under assault, and so it's just a mess.

1:05:06  
Yeah, Aubin was telling me to apply to Canada.

1:05:13  
I would do those two years

1:05:15  
tomorrow. Vancouver is an awesome city. I'd

1:05:17  
apply. I'd apply to Canada. I would do you said you've been to Japan. Do you know?

1:05:23  
Where? Do you know I have a company division over there in Ouida, which was next to bebu. The hot springs at bebu, that sounds great. Okay, mountains with snow, 14 degrees, sauna, and the food is just, holy shit. My favorite trip. My least favorite was Osaka, Tokyo. Osaka, I hate that, but because they take some 40 sevens and run them into the mountain, you know, on a foggy day. Oh my god, I wasn't,

1:06:00  
I hope not, but

1:06:02  
yeah, we had, we had offices in Tokyo. Fact, that was the highest paid guy in the company made more than my boss. My boss was the CEO, and at the time his nominal, the salary was a joke. He needed his salary. His salary was pocket change. Damn, like 400,000 a year or whatever. But the guy in Tokyo made more money because his expenses

1:06:24  
were insane. Is the company still running? No.

1:06:27  
Sony bought it, so it's totally owned. All of the assets everywhere were absorbed into the so when you go in MS Hall, and you go down to that place, oh, 20 in MS, and you look at the wall and it says, brought to you by the Sony Corporation. I brought those guys here. That was Shelly winning, and at the time, the chairman of the Sony Corporation who came in, Shelley's only comment to me was, you're gonna wait. We're gonna have to put you on a diet,

1:07:00  
still. So Sony bought it out. But it's like the infrastructure that you put in still, like there,

1:07:06  
it's sputter machines. You'll still see them out there, type in material Research Corporation, and you'll still see MRC machines still in use. They were great machines. The company that does that better than anybody now is applied materials. They were our biggest competitor and bigger than us. We were second only to them. Varian was in the game. Lamb was in the Enter game. We made a small, irrelevant Etcher called the Aries. We didn't sell any of them, and we made the eight inch versions of the

1:07:42  
sputter. She said, Applied Materials.

1:07:46  
No, that was, that's the company that was bigger than us, and it's still going. They didn't get bought Sony bought us. There was a White Night kind of a deal we were I mean, that's why I left the company, because I know how to read a balance sheet. And I said, go back to Princeton. You don't need to be staying here until you're off for a year. You have the option to go back, go back.

1:08:10  
The timing was right. Yeah, I

1:08:12  
could have stayed if I had decided to do it. Do you see MRC? There were two MRCs. One is the mission Research Corporation did downhole testing, MRC global. MRC was the material Research Corporation back then, type in Shelley winning. See if he's still alive. He will be 98 years old now his dad lives will be 101 I think on fat. Hell

1:08:46  
of a character. Metal are just from Columbia when

1:08:50  
he quit and started the company in the 50s,

1:08:56  
and Sony's just amazing. What don't they own? I mean, right? They're in a lot

1:09:02  
of trouble. Lot of trouble. Sony is. They've been in trouble since roughly the 90s. Sony lost its way in the consumer electronics. Remember, they were Betamax.

1:09:17  
That's right, they lost. How many of them they lost? It's too bad there are a lot of people love Betamax.

1:09:24  
No, it didn't. It didn't fail because it wasn't better. It just failed because VHS

1:09:33  
got there. But the leading hedge sooner and the standard was supported by a

1:09:38  
number of politicians. I number of politicians and Sony was Sony. I just had a time when Japanese was bad. I just threw out a bunch of

1:09:49  
VHS tapes. You know, there was a time that

1:09:51  
Japanese was bad, yeah, really bad, bad, to the point where people used to bring out Toshiba products and a sledgehammer, and these were congressmen and bang those things on camera and say, I think in Japan, I

1:10:08  
forgot, I forgot so that that kind of performative politics has been around for a long time.

1:10:15  
You don't have to shoot Budweiser, yeah,

1:10:20  
definitely a thing. I mean, my grandmother had, she would she, she felt burned by Pearl Harbor, and never quite got over it. Yeah, profoundly racist. Yeah, my father a little bit. But he

1:10:34  
served at Tarawa, which was a real nightmare. He was a Marine

1:10:42  
at Tarawa. But I mean, I think the kind of the coupling of our economies, to some

1:10:48  
degree, it's the moral of the story is my war were the people who now make all my shirts and his war were the people who made all your consumer electronics. So if you could

1:11:04  
skip the war and just get to the product where you design, who's gonna make what? Yeah, and trade fairly between you you're better off. Yeah, boy, wouldn't that be nice. I thought we already had this

1:11:19  
figured out. Sheldon Wynne, W, E, I W, E, I n, I G, is he still alive? I think so.

1:11:29  
If you don't see an obituary,

1:11:33  
does he have a Wikipedia?

1:11:34  
He has a Wikipedia? Yeah. There's also this, like LinkedIn, I found adjunct professor at Columbia University.

1:11:44  
He was from. He was a professor of metallurgy in the 50s, and his what he did, which was, see, I wouldn't have been able to tell you this story in 1987 because it was still company proprietary, but his process was to take chromium and bind it to iodine and gasify it and then purify it by condensation on a quartz tube. And what condensed on a hot quartz tube, blew the iodine off, and you could deposit in almost a single distillation step. This is, this is a chemically mediated distillation step. You get five nines chromium. And if you do it a couple more time, you get six nines chromium. That's awesome. I have a piece I'll show it to you sometime, that has the curvature of the quartz tube that it was deposited on, and the Chromium crystallites sticking out. It's really beautiful. It's really very beautiful stuff. But six nines chromium was the thing in the early 50s when Solid State Secretary was just beginning to be discussed, and boards were the other thing that he did was he developed an aluminum oxide tape casting process that deposited an ultra pure aluminum oxide in a thin, beautiful, flat layer that needed almost no polish, transparent, no light, called super straight. And super straight had an epsilon right in around 10, 10.0 so worth its weight in gold. So he made the substrate, and he made the Chrome that you would evaporatively deposit as the wire, you know. So that started MRC, wow. And then eventually, most of our money, we lost our money on the tools and made our money selling sputter targets. So we sold gold. We sold gold targets,

1:14:00  
your targets waiver. That's a 12 huge. That's a huge

1:14:04  
piece of gold, a half inch thick, four nines gold, you know. So 24 Karat has no meaning. Yet, those targets cost a lot

1:14:14  
of money. With these, with these, these were magnetron targets, or, okay, yeah, oh yeah,

1:14:18  
everything magnetron. It was cool. So I was the plasma guy who came into the company to teach him about ECR and all the fancy shit. And I was a hero for a while, but I could see we weren't selling stuff. My final story, and then I'll show it forever. I'll never say it again, I advise strongly against buying a version of a cluster tool that had been developed by Nihon Electric Corporation, well, one of the last dozen. And I worked at the neon the NEC lab for a while, and it came through Varian, who had modified it a bit. And I hated the thing, because it was a vacuum under performer and in the line of work we were in, which

1:15:11  
is 10

1:15:15  
of the minus eight tour was, was the outlaw 10 of the minus 10, if you didn't get to the low eights or below, and they were under pumped, and I knew it, and I didn't like it, and I said, don't buy that. But Shelly and the CFO Garrett decided we needed the publicity bump

1:15:41  
so they made a spurious purchase here,

1:15:44  
purchase, that silly thing, and it was just a huge suck on resources to make it go. I ended up when I quit and went back to Princeton, the last thing Shelley says, and this is not going to be a revolving door for you. Manos turned out it was revolving door because I ended up having to go back up there consult. That's pretty funny. Almost every day, even after I came here, I was still consulting, because they

1:16:13  
got them, because because they bought a lemon, they got in, yeah, they

1:16:15  
bought it was just a bad idea, and it sucked. Huge numbers of engineers. So know this, you might be dedicated. One more story, and then I'll stop. The guy was consulting with and had the best relationship with was a 30 maybe was 3435 guy named Chris fliegel, who I really liked, mechanical engineer with chopstow so that many new electronics and all kinds of other stuff. And I was consulting with Chris, with Chris almost once a week for a while there, and I came in to see him one day, and I said, Where's Chris? And he said, Oh, he died. He came in on a Monday morning and died in his death for America in his mid third, holy shit, this is what corporate America will reward you with. They will heart attack. He was working. He was working way too

1:17:14  
hard. That's, that's, that's a really sad deal. Wonderful

1:17:19  
wife and two kids. I didn't do it, I didn't do it, but I was very sad.

1:17:26  
But, yeah, you, but that's, that's a good moral. Actually, you, as you go forward, do pay attention to your health and your sanity.

1:17:35  
Yeah. Also don't look for gratitude, because there isn't any gratitude. Is your stock options?

1:17:42  
Yeah, gratitude is somebody paying you. Make sure,

1:17:45  
make sure you get good options, that you can strike them in six weeks to six months, and that nobody will say boo to you if you strike them in the wrong direction, which means an insider sale. Sell the goddamn stock when it's green, buy the goddamn stock when it's red, and don't look for gratitude, because nobody will give you it.

1:18:05  
I think that's pretty fair. How's that for cynical,

1:18:12  
we're not moving this kid down the road. We're just keeping him

1:18:15  
here. No, but do send me that that spreadsheet.

1:18:19  
Yeah, like to take I'm going to, probably tonight or tomorrow,

1:18:22  
grab one at random. And where is it, and would you, what would you do when you got there? Yeah, don't grab Harvard

1:18:31  
or right now. Okay, um, so University of Okinawa, Institute of Science and Technology, that as

1:18:41  
metal. You know, Okinawa is a dying Island,

1:18:44  
dying. It is

1:18:47  
dying by virtue of the fact that all the old people are dying. And there's a breeding crisis in Okinawa. There is an immigration problem in Okinawa. So the population is going like this, and the workloads going like that, and the population the workload, and eventually that's half the zero. The only way to turn it around. Japan's done this before they've done it first in the wrong direction, where they sent 200,000 plus Japanese workers to Brazil to help with coffee harvest. I remember that,

1:19:25  
yeah, there's a there's a Japanese Brazil

1:19:29  
bringing in Brazilians now to deal with labor crises in Japan. But in general, Japanese people do not like non Japanese people very much.

1:19:40  
I heard Okinawa is more welcoming, though, in terms of us sitting, more welcoming,

1:19:45  
but they're because they don't have a choice at this point their population. But an awful lot of rural areas in Japan are trouble.

1:19:57  
Yeah, it's becoming strictly urban centers on the Shinkansen. If it's on the Shinkansen, or you can get through it within an hour by ground.

1:20:10  
That's a good thing. Like robotics. What would you want to do? There?

1:20:20  
Something along the lines of computer engineering and robotics, but

1:20:26  
making a good you know, I saw a $29,000 biped. I don't know

1:20:31  
if it's any good. The 20,001 I saw you, I sent you.

1:20:34  
No, that was not the one. The one I saw was fairly was like a call,

1:20:40  
yeah, home by,

1:20:43  
I don't know what it can do. Oh, for, like, for domestic

1:20:47  
use, instead of warehousing elderly, having one of these things help them up the stairs. Let me see here.

1:20:56  
This is, this is the one I sent.

1:20:58  
Was walking with somebody. We'd had clothes out.

1:21:02  
So this one takes care of your house, and then it's made of like some gel, like plastic hand, yeah. But then here's the kicker, it's not fully, like automatic yet, so they it's a program. It they have a person in, like, VR, like, remote in to, like, do things,

1:21:25  
to puppet it, essentially, yeah, okay, well, that's what's bit of a miss,

1:21:33  
and so and so. At a certain point, like in your house, if it's not working, you can ask someone to remote into your house in a random machine doll and take care of your items. But if, if this was good, it would be interesting. But if for that, for that one case where I have a stranger, I'm not, I'm

1:21:53  
not gonna buy the mark one, let's say, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.

1:22:05  
Working on domestic My wife wants a robot.

1:22:13  
I don't know. I guess I don't know. It depends on how good it

1:22:18  
is, yeah, not the mark one.

1:22:21  
There's part of me that I don't think I'm gonna give up the biological dog, but I can understand if you're elderly and you can't go outside, you know, and but you need the companionship, I can totally see it. We're we should be out of this room here right about now.

1:22:42  
So yeah, I'll send you this stuff. I'll try to, like, incorporate all my interests, as I told you. I'm trying to, like, fill in this one tab of like, what I want to do in these places. And then the deadlines, yeah,

1:22:53  
and I encourage you not to be very mindful. The deadlines, graduate school applications suck up way more time than you think they should. So just make sure that people who are writing your recommendations have plenty of runway to do what you need to do. And just make sure that you're as organized as you can be. Yeah, it'll make your life better, and the people who are helping you is life better? Yeah, just as a, as a,

1:23:19  
yeah, I've done as many as 10, but it's pretty much the same. Weather modified a little bit for the place,

1:23:26  
and now that I have a repository of recommendation letters, I can

1:23:30  
I can never do that. Every single goddamn person has this horrible tendency to be unique individual, and they just don't stop this mode. Stop it.

1:23:49  
I appreciate the encouragement, honestly,

1:23:53  
sorry. Well, you

1:23:55  
are tremendously talented. Don't lose sight of that in this process.

