0:00  
It's felt like that all semester. It's senior year. Yeah,

0:13  
I've been I've been on the ball, not not just, not just this, but for like, everything this week. Like, I don't know, I think the stress of that one application hasn't had me, like, set every other assignment early so that I can make more time for it. It's a really good idea. And so I've been

0:36  
just just, not just knock out your list as quickly as you

0:39  
Yeah, yeah. It's kind of crazy though. I've been like, I've been like, waking up super early, getting everything done. I don't I've never been so productive.

0:52  
That's one of, that's one of Dennis's superpowers. Like, if you, if you can wake up at four in the morning, you got the jump on everybody. You like you can you can be, like, like, eight out of nine steps towards being done on something and have, like, pepper, you know, your closest associates with like, pertinent questions before they're even awake.

1:14  
Yeah, yeah. How are your

1:21  
funding deadline. Oh, I'm working on that right now. It's, I think it's like on the 17th or the 19th or something, but Dennis wants us to kind of be done with it today. So, yeah, I'm working on, well, we're trying to submit two, but I want to get this one done today, because it's the one we actually care about. Yeah,

1:40  
we're trying to get this exact thing.

1:43  
Yeah, there's two different models. There's just slight differences, like, one of them has a has a red laser, the other one has a violet laser. But one of the violet laser is, like, basically twice the cost, essentially, you know, the red laser is 140k the other one is 220 5k So Dennis wants us to ask for the, you know, the fancy one. Yeah, and mentioned that there's a cheaper one. There exists a cheaper one, but so, so maybe they'll, they'll take pity on us and give us the, you know, the cheaper one, which I'd be perfectly happy with, yeah, it would be awesome to get like the, you know, the Cadillac, but if we get

2:27  
the, always want to pitch to sell like that, of course.

2:30  
So yeah, yeah, that's what I'm going to be working on this afternoon. But I read, I read through your, I read through your,

2:38  
oh, is that what you have? Yeah, this

2:40  
is your thing. Here,

2:42  
maybe a few notes. Here is that

2:45  
it felt, it felt like so I don't think this was quite what Dennis was probably looking for. It's a, it's definitely a place to start. I think what he wanted was for you to basically write a recommendation letter for yourself. Oh, I think, I think this is a valuable exercise in that it felt like, it felt like, kind of like a personal inventory of like, of like your desires and like your experience over the last while. And I think that's valuable for like, you know, clarifying what you want to do, yeah, but, but also at the end, you're left with the dangling question of what comes next, yeah, but, I mean, you've outlined, you've outlined a plan. I'm

3:33  
back. Welcome back. What did I do? It's over here. I left it over

3:40  
here. You also have a copy I do, yeah? Oh goodness, let me Well, yeah,

3:47  
this meeting is this isn't Emmanuel

3:49  
man, well, you're the only one comes to two PhDs picking on you at the same

3:59  
time as a style note. Can I get up as a style note? I would discourage you from telling me what I know as a general rule. You started as as you know. Tell me what you know. Yeah, tell me what

4:18  
you know. So, right, okay, before, before any further discussion. I took this lightly as Emmanuel, just like, describe your experiences and what you think

4:32  
me not getting clear. So this felt like more like going into like a confessional. For me, it was reading your journal.

4:41  
Yeah, that's what I thought you it's

4:47  
a valuable exercise. Absolutely, this is a valuable exercise,

4:51  
but this is me poking into your personal life. I want you to in

4:58  
fact, I can do it. I don't need. More I see, but I'm what I gather from this is you are not well focused. That's what you say. I am not a well focused individual kind of and so you you like everything, and that's why I wanted to get you to focus on, what would you put in front of an employer who wants to know, why should I select you over the 552 people that are outside my door, banging on my door to do this job, whatever it is. And the answer can't be diffuse, and it's got to be, in a sense, two answers here, one is graduate school, and one is employment. So let's work backwards. And probably Doug has more to say about this than I do, because, you know, I like it in a sense that I get to know you. But I can condense all of this. I condense every word here into the single word empathy, which I think is what you had in mind. I'm able to put myself in your head, and to me, that's the essence of empathy, period. There is no other essence to empathy. Then I took this second paragraph, and I don't want to go on like this forever, but I need to wear my stupid glasses. Once I put these on, I'm going to make a persistent problem worse, which is I'm telling my brain that the world is in close, and then when the world gets far away, and my brain doesn't like that anymore. Used to like it with my old eyes, does not like these advice, then you tell me all about photography.

6:43  
I was using that to

6:45  
now tell me why. Just telling you what you did, whether you like it or not, that's what you did. You went from things that, what am I like to the next part, which is I have an obsession with details down. That's and that's, I always take the first sentence of a paragraph to be, that's what this paragraph is about. And I took that paragraph and unraveled it into you're not Ansel Adams, and you are suffering from being a denizen of the modern age, you suffer because you can go out and go with no penalty at all. Snappity. Snippety, boogity. Boogity, video mode for two and a half hours. Picture, picture, picture, picture, picture, picture, and now that sounds like it saved me a lot of time and effort and energy, except for you said, No, it doesn't, because you have to edit and choose the wait for it. Here 15 photographs I think are worthwhile. Ansel Adams was lucky if he produced 15 in a quarter in three months. It took him all day to expose one, or at most, two glass plates, because it took weeks to make them. So what I mean from this, and this is me criticizing your photography, is it's too easy for you. It's you and all your friends out there with one of these in your pocket, should have to suffer with the idea that each picture on this roll of film, which you no longer can buy, is going to cost you $20 to expose and develop into five by seven and two or $300 to do as a Ansel Adams wall size, so that I came away saying, my work, if you were to work for me and stay with me, would be to get you to think and be more like Ansel Adams and get back into photography with By giving yourself to challenge you do not hit that shutter more than 10 times today, all day?

9:08  
Yeah, I think all of the best art comes from the constraints that you that you put on your project. And in fact, a lot of you know physical phenomenon itself is related to the constraints you set on the problem itself. And I think in order to advance you, you, you kind of have to box yourself in a little bit in order to progress. And I think that's a good that's a good strategy for artists in particular, I mean, and scientists and scientists and engineers and musicians and bankers

9:39  
and finance, if you throw the money out the window, Rockefeller style, you probably not invest in it wisely. Okay, so that would be my take home from that period. I don't want again. I'm not going to go through this at all, but I read here the last sentence of that pair. After it started, led me to write down one word. It's one word you've spent almost a page and a half. And the takeaway for me empathy and tenacity. That's not your first page empathy and tenacity. And down here, you elaborate a lot on the tenacity by breaking it into four more attributes or things about me that I would I was being really loquacious to find four words to describe the rest of this page. And they are devotion, intensity, singularity and absorption. And that's what that's all I got from the rest of the page, those four words. And then I also feel like I heard you say out loud, you're drifting, and you're yelling to the wilderness. Someone guide me, please. And yet, you answered your own question. Have been, are now and are likely to continue to be an engineering physicist or a physically oriented engineer? Done. There's no more question. You answered it right here. Just let's not pretend we're rooting around for another answer. You can go another five years and you're coming back to that answer, whether you like it or not. Okay? Then you said a bunch of stuff that I just got questions out of because the way you said it was a little cryptic and intriguing, and that's dangerous for me,

11:44  
because I'm exactly you'll ask probing questions

11:47  
for me, because I'm exactly like you. I like everything, I care about everything, and I want to know these answers. So you said I'm hoping to take on a photonic to analog neural network, and I put a big question mark there, because I don't know quite what that looks like, and I want to, okay, so then you said, this is something so I think it's just a grammar on your part, but maybe you meant something else. You said, neural networks made directly. Is there any other way to make something? No, you put that so I mean,

12:29  
can wait following

12:34  
the word, following from a precise assortment of hardware components? Yes. How else would you make a neural

12:42  
network software based? And that's the way that

12:45  
Okay, so that's what you mean by directly, I see. So that's not what I thought you meant. I thought you meant, although it is what you meant, you meant a real embodiment of a neural network, which there's like four or five of them here, maybe left working, and there are transistor based ones, and there are optical based ones, and then there are simulations of neural networks, which is what you meant by not directly. Okay, okay, so I, I generally it's why I'm a stickler on the words and the nouns, and why people shoot each other all the time is they don't pre agree on words and nouns words. I call what you just said simulation, and one can make a simulation, so that's correct. Now I know what you were saying. Then you said here, taking this further photonic neural network, and this sounds like a little hype to me, could exceed all we know about computing, and I have no idea what you mean by that.

13:54  
So are you like? Are you talking about like photonics as like a replacement for classic? Are

14:01  
you talking about a solid state, non buoyan, logical machine? Are you talking about a Von Neumann architecture being superseded? Or what do you what are you saying there exactly? Because you know that can go in about 10 different directions. All right, so these are just my questions. And then I think what I saw, what happens now and again, like a page, whole page here condenses to it took a job to show me what I needed to know about focusing it says here that I have recently made efforts to refine myself after my first real job experience this summer. Ta, da, same thing happened to me. I happened to get a job in a brewery, and I saw people making money, literally making money, paying rent. And driving Buicks and raising children doing precisely what I had learned in a classroom. And that was summer of my sophomore year, and it changed my life forever. I thought, shit, this isn't just stuff that you go in the classroom and you learn because you want to know it. This stuff can be traded for money. Let's trade some of this for money. Then I read the last paragraph, and now I'm going to need my damn glasses again, because I wrote this on a bicycle while I was riding it, stationary bicycle. Yeah, I, I think he said when I mentioned our focus on applied hands on physics, I actually have plans to continue my mathematical and theoretical physics studies. I would say this. Do this upside down, rather than just wander through every sort of abstract textbook, learning whatever is there. Pick either MATLAB or Mathematica and decide which one you want to live with for the next, for the rest of your life. Well, I'm gonna say for the next two years that's going to be your principal object of study is, how do I solve real problems with one or both of those? Personally, I think if you're engineering oriented, MATLAB is probably MATLAB. If you're physics oriented, maybe either is just them both good for a physicist, but MATLAB will surely, surely be there. If you go in the world of physics, it's going to be there. The other thing you could add, but not until 24 months have elapsed. Okay, for the first 24 months, you are devoted to conquering MATLAB and becoming the resident expert on solving every single known Hilbert problem using MATLAB. Okay? And then you can open the abstract textbooks and read the Arnold and learn all that algebraic shit and so forth. But for now, learn how to do stuff, and magically you will wake up knowing the theory that underlies it. As you hit the limits of what MATLAB can and can't solve, you're going to have to go read and look it up.

17:34  
And I wanted to alleviate one of your concerns. You mentioned that you felt like, I think somewhere in here, you mentioned that you didn't feel like, I'm paraphrasing, but essentially, you weren't able to get out all of the knowledge from the classes in the moment. Because you're you're running so fast that sometimes you you don't feel like you have a complete mastery.

17:55  
You said you slowed down. It slows me down. Oh, yeah, nothing. There's nothing good about going past nothing.

18:05  
And I want to say, if you go to graduate school and you study like, say, physics, in my case, I thought I had a pretty good education in physics coming out of undergraduate but I had, I had a similar sort of, you know, doubts and misgivings about, like, what I was able to retain. But the good news about graduate school is it's an opportunity to reinforce what you already know and to dive into those subjects a little bit deeper than you went before. So even having if you consider an incomplete knowledge or mastery, the good news is, there's still an opportunity, and having that exposure will make the next iteration of learning that much easier. So

18:44  
yeah, and the more I go back, and I go back all the time, I run scales every morning on the bicycle. But this morning, that wasn't the only thing I did. This morning. I'm running scales on the bike every morning as I ride, and I ran scales. And why is because the more I do it, the more I realize I don't know shit. I don't know physics. I think I do, and I don't know yet sure I can solve the equations, and I think I but I can, I explain it to a six year old. Can and some things you can't. You cannot, kind of tell a six year old about accidents. That's not going to happen, but you're going to tell a six year old about Newton, and you're going to, I mean, a lot of stuff you ought to be able to explain to anybody, and understanding stuff at the level where you don't rely on math as a crutch. That's where I'm weak. I'm gaining on it. But I have discovered it's taken me 45 years of having graduate students. I've had graduate students for 45 years, and I've watched them turn into deer in the headlights and oral examinations when they are asked the simplest goddamn question that. Are, where I've watched the professor trying to be nice by asking, you know, tell us how this relates to the second law, or something really straightforward, and trying to just get the juices flowing, and it just craters. That's not only here. I saw that at Princeton. I saw it at Toronto.

20:18  
It's, it's an interesting phenomenon, and I've had that happen to me where I've just frozen on simple questions. Yes,

20:25  
I don't know how to articulate the concept without writing Lagrangian this. If I ask you simply, why do you write a Lagrangian? You write this down, you're telling me this somehow represents a

20:43  
mechanical Why do I always get the equations of motions out of

20:48  
this simple questions about where is the time in this problem, if the entire answer is minimizing an integral in its endpoints and doing something like Leibniz rule by differentiating under the integral side and maybe integrating by parts. Nothing melts our graduate students faster than multiple integration by parts, which you learn freshman year. This is the stuff people do not command, and it's because they haven't taken the time to learn how to do it well enough. And this was where Feynman made his living. Feynman made his living on 15 pages of a book by a man named wood called advanced calculus. It's a beautiful book, and it is really nothing more than I just said, integration by parts, differentiation under the integral sign, and how to handle problems that have that Feynman got so good at that that he solved everything, everything he came up against, he crammed into that box first to see, could I solve it? And by God, he got path integrals that way. He got time dependence that way. He got propagators that

22:03  
way, and we got field theory

22:07  
because he did that so well. Anyway, all this stuff is in there. Now, the one takeaway I really had was this thing was graduate school, and you looking for a plan B. When people look for Plan B, that's good, and I like that. And I've always got an A and B and a C, because that's where I am, because, because you need

22:32  
to, right? Because not everything works out, but

22:35  
Plan B would for you be, what are your prospects of going back to, I guess it's called Viner

22:43  
Weiner, yes. Winer, yes. What would be

22:47  
your chances of getting a full time job with them?

22:52  
Pretty high. So we, we talked about my like prospects of like, the future in general, and I told them my plan of, like, going to graduate school if I don't make it to graduate school, I guess job. And then they came to the consideration, like, wait, you could get a job here. But, um, let's talk about that. After the graduate school applications, you should prioritize that. That's that's essentially paraphrasing. What can

23:19  
you get better feedback. Then that basically says, Don't forget, we could be your plan B. Now Plan A might be, pick what you want to do and pick somebody here to do it with and see what your chances of getting into graduate school here would be with somebody, you know, if it was data science, which I think you would excel at, I would say talk, maybe. Talk to Dan on fall live. You talk to Trent Ford. You talk to Tony stefanis and see what's what in those areas. If you decide it's looks more like physics hell. There are half a dozen physicists. I

24:02  
mean, you're already working with Seth. You might want to bench there. You know,

24:05  
if you could work with Seth, that's a thing. And then the question is, is there any way to do that while you got a job? I haven't seen people do Co Op PhD here yet, but I watched a zillion people do it when I worked in England and in Germany.

24:27  
I know one person who does it in neuroscience and then works at Talbots. But that's not true at Talbots. CW, what's her name?

24:41  
Sackley. Oh, she doing a Master's or PhD. She's doing

24:45  
a PhD, but she works like, it's kind of just like a hobby job. So she works under the 10 hour, like,

24:51  
yeah, no, I know you. Part of the problem is your graduate student contract. You can run a foul of,

24:58  
yeah, yeah. You're. Not allowed to work too much, except if you have permission to do it,

25:04  
yeah, right, yeah. She says she does it to, like, socialize, so just like, two hours a week. The undergrad, I had a

25:13  
four point here all the way through, had a 40 hour a week job as an undergrad, and she did it because she wanted the money and she didn't want to waste her time in school. That's possibility. And I think if you talk to Mark Kendrick, you'll find he's done it, and his person funded that person to do the graduate work, and then they picked the problem. This was what is now Altria. Was Then Philip Morris. They picked the problem. They wanted the answer to that he would have done if he had stayed working in their lab, and he just got paid his tuition and stipend here. And then he did that job and checked in with them as CO mentors.

26:05  
Yeah, I also have, I've also been working with UVA. There was a systems engineer PhD student I've been working with, and she ended up having a second job at NASA. But, like, she had to get like, some, like, permissions to work

26:25  
dispensation, whose name here is Allison Wilson, and maybe the Dean, who was, you know, your dean

26:32  
here, Doug Smith. No, he's a new school dean, right?

26:37  
Yeah, that's what do you

26:39  
think he would do his piece. I've met Doug Smith like two or three times.

26:44  
So you get special dispensation from the Provost Office, the dean and the chair of whatever department you decided to do your thing,

26:55  
which might be physics might be applied science might be math might be data science. I don't care about department means nothing. So that's a possibility, and that would be depending on how happy you were with the salary they pay you. If you're happy with the salary, then, because you do know how to focus and hunker down and really get absorbed. That's the final use word I use is I became absorbed. I was the first one in and the last one out every single day i i was on a 712, schedule. You know, whatever you kids say today, do that with the sole purpose of making that place more money than they ever dreamed of. Guaranteed you'll run it before you're done. So that's a don't think your plan B to be what happens if I fail? It's just an alternative way to succeed. Work that plan B into something real with Weiner, and then we can do whatever it is about trying to find you. If you don't find what you're looking for, correct me, if I'm wrong and Doug's got a lot more to say something, oh, you're fine, and I'll shut up. But the externalities are, what are going to stop you? Not the not your record. Your record is fine. Yeah. I mean, we've placed people with 3.1 3.2 it could you not going to get into Stanford. Probably you don't want to go to Stanford any damn way. Because I can't say this often enough, no school is any better than the student that goes to it, no school. And so you can take any school that has a modern library system, by which I mean the capacity to download any paper in any language, anywhere within 48 hours. I don't do you know a school that doesn't have that? No, me neither. And so that used to be the hallmark of a great school like Oxford, is they have a great library with books sort of like this.

29:01  
And it's, it is an awesome library. I mean, it's iconic.

29:07  
Sure, it's great to look at beautiful and it smells old, but it's no

29:12  
better information

29:15  
anywhere so and the professors are all about the same. They're all very, very good at what they do, unless you work the real side of the equation, like at Broad Institute. If you're in bioengineering, that would be like, take it, University of California, San Francisco. Take it. But San Francisco is better than Stanford if you want to be a bio engineer. And a lot of people don't think that or know that, but I'm telling you, it is. It's better. Washington is better than Stanford. Washington's hard to get into. They won't take pretty high that. Why does anybody want to see grades? Is so they so they know you're not going to be. Overly challenged with their curriculum, that you'll get through their curriculum and learn what it is they want you to know. I think that's almost guaranteed for you. Thank you.

30:12  
So I guess I had a philosophical question. So we were talking about Hilbert, who made an effort to try to basically unify all of mathematics under a common set of axioms. He wasn't the only, I mean, yeah, but, but I believe it was in response to that that gold, gold came up with his famous Incompleteness Theorem, right? And you have a, you have a statement here where you say, I believe all is solvable. That's a hell of a statement.

30:47  
I think what you meant to say was what Einstein once is said to have said, which is the most astonishing thing about the universe is that we can't understand it. That's what you say. But he's right.

31:05  
There's a lot of, let's call them intractable problems out there, yeah, but, but I just wonder, because, like, if I, if I took that statement to a philosophy professor, I think I would just get pounded over the head.

31:22  
I have to say something about your philosophy professor. Was, do you like that guy or not?

31:30  
He's He's okay.

31:33  
He's discursive at best.

31:35  
So that quote, what was that? Was that an was that a transcript, was that, was that an AI transcript of a conversation you had, because it sounded like it. I wanted to just say, like the direct quote. The direct quote is strange, and in that, if it was just like an offhand, you know, sort of thing that was recorded, I would I would feel comfortable paraphrasing his assessment, rather than quoting him directly, because it, it came off a little weird. That quote came off a little weird.

32:09  
Yeah, if you like him, don't put it it sounds because

32:15  
that's the way people talk. Yeah, that sounds like people in

32:18  
conversation. How people talk is,

32:22  
I mean, vernacular is a skill if you're a fiction writer. I just

32:26  
wanted to know, did you mean to ding this guy, even unconsciously?

32:35  
No, per se. So my thesis has been like we've, I've had my proposal, and then I came in to him, like, told him my proposal, and then we had to redraft it, and then we had to redraft again, and we had to redraft because that's, that's kind of what, that's encouraging, and it's So I haven't had time to actually, like, really, he wants me to really know, of course, he wants me to know what I'm writing about prior to, like, writing 50 pages of a thesis. So, so we've had to redraft it, like so many times, five or so words. What is your thesis? Right now my thesis is the aim of science, in contradiction to what Fenner Delson says as a response to constructive empiricists who say that the aim of science is to have empirically adequate theories scientists

33:39  
for 50 years, I don't recognize anything you said, anything

33:43  
I've ever done. Is he a continental philosopher, or is he an analytical philosopher? Start there.

33:51  
So some people, are you that there's an course?

33:55  
I'm kidding. Yeah, I'm doing this because you need to have it done because, yeah, you cannot think that polysyllabic representations of something as simple as F equals MA, add anything to F equals ma. You know that all that fancy language is fancy language.

34:15  
Yeah. So what? Without

34:17  
the fancy language? What are you trying to prove?

34:22  
How we actually describe, how we actually conduct science. I'm trying to represent that in a proper manner in which that we can define, like, Hey, this is the not essential aim, but in the what if you were to say, Why do you do this? You would say, Oh, this kind of aligns with how I conduct my scientific,

34:50  
huge literature around what you just said. And you know, the people recent people being Karl Popper, all the way back, I know you. Don't love Emmanuel Kant, but he spent a lot of his life. Look at that problem. It's that's a hard problem, yeah, why? Why Doug does science is probably different than why you do it, yeah, which is probably different from

35:14  
why I do it, yeah. But we're, we're talking about science in the terms of, like, the norms and practices instead of

35:21  
the individualized, yeah. I mean, what you're really talking

35:25  
about is the enterprise. Is

35:28  
talking about the pursuit of science rather than the object. Is there a there, out there? That's the key question. God. Spend a lot of time on that.

35:40  
Yeah. That.

35:44  
Yeah, and, you know, he, he does too. They. The problem with all of this is the problem of projection, and the fact that we live in 3d with time, and we don't know what time is, but we put it all to Einstein, put it all together. So now we live in four that's an awful few number of dimensions. Yeah. So this is going to be our one for you, yeah, and science pursue the truth.

36:13  
Well, here's people say no. Can science pursue No?

36:18  
Hoping you're going to say no to that answer. It does not

36:23  
pursue truth. It pursues a description.

36:26  
Is a tool that it uses on the way to pursue what it pursues, which he thinks is a

36:32  
description, or maybe at best, a representation. Or at best, a

36:37  
representation, yeah, power Yes, or the power that comes from accurate Yeah.

36:43  
The other, the other thing I wrote down and related power is control. I think one of, one of the things that I learned in graduate school, in my education, is the power of understanding and control and a practical sense science provides an avenue for control.

37:02  
I am seeing Dr guillotine lopping off your Lavoisier like head and saying the regime has no need of savants and everyone cheering you. You yes, the answer is yes, and the military. But this was not an easy question.

37:29  
No, this is not so. So I I had different perspectives of handling it, where, like, I don't know, I took it from, as he said, like a creative where I kind of like tried grab everything, put it in.

37:43  
You have to have a simple idea, yeah, pursue it. You only have pages, 100 pages to get this thing done, and you better get started now. If you haven't already, yeah, you're doing a page

37:55  
a day. Not how

37:56  
many days between now and graduation, I don't know, take a stab. It's probably

38:04  
on the this is like a Fermi problem, yeah, 100 ish, so you better be doing if you want 100 pages at the end of this process, you're either going to do a page a day or you're going to do it all at the end. Take your pick. Yeah. What do you think is going to lead to? The more readable version and the more

38:22  
insightful, of course, they're like, stressed, yeah, okay,

38:26  
and nobody, but nobody hears me when I say this.

38:30  
It's nobody, really. It's the best advice, and nobody follows

38:36  
it. I kind of, sort of followed it, but not quite.

38:40  
Sorry. Oh no. I lost my train

38:44  
of thought. Go ahead. We were talking. We got off track with the thesis,

38:47  
right? Yeah. But your thesis, look, you're, you're double major here. A lot of people think just the philosophy degree from here would have been pretty good. You're going for philosophy plus, plus engineering physics, which is engineering and physics,

39:07  
that's a pretty broad, almost. That's a pretty broad portfolio. And one of the things I was left with after reading through is just, just you, you. You were very diligent in accepting interesting opportunities as they came to you. And that is something that I think a lot of people are scared to do, and that's a quality I really admire in you. You are, you are fearless in the face of new challenges,

39:35  
also flitting around, as you've done from club to club to thing to thing to thing is

39:40  
what you're supposed to do. Yeah, that is absolutely the undergraduate experience.

39:45  
Knowing what you want to do the minute you start school is not bad.

39:49  
Yeah, I don't view your interest in breath as a it's a good thing. It's it's not a it's not to your detriment. It's a good thing. I. Right? It's something to highlight. So

40:01  
okay, but I still don't know. I mean, I think if you should read my I can't, because I don't do that, but if you read my recommendations from people, I concentrate on what they know how to do a lot. So tell me what you know how to do in your next version of this. You know it could be bullets. I don't want page after page. I don't want an essay just bullet

40:28  
points. Do you have it? Do you have a CV? Have you okay? I didn't, I don't think I saw. I didn't print out a copy of that. But if you haven't sent me a CV, send me.

40:41  
Emmanuel Sampson, a very impressive under we have a note to sell. So

40:50  
I in, I shared a Google Sheet with you,

40:55  
okay, which has the list of the colleges. Is your CV in there as well?

41:00  
Yeah, so on, there's another tab with like it says about me, and it has my CV, my LinkedIn, my website. And

41:09  
now remind me, do applications require a resume or a CV or

41:14  
some generally, yeah, some brief, yeah. So usually Academic Research Letters of

41:20  
recommendation that I've done come in several styles. Most of them have these ridiculous liker chart things you know, how rate this honest? Is this person on a scale to one to five? How mature are they on a scale to one to five? So I find that stuff or less useful,

41:42  
or like, what percentile of this category is this person?

41:47  
And then they ask things like, how good are you at math? How good are you at solving problems? But it depends on what they want you to

41:59  
do. Did you see my email about Okinawa.

42:02  
No, he may have sent it while I was not checking emails much I see, what did you

42:08  
say? The deadline is Saturday. Yes. Have you asked for Yes,

42:18  
I saw that. I saw the link so I can, I

42:23  
did not see the email that when you have a Saturday deadline and you get an echo back that says, I'm not in the

42:33  
office, bearing in mind also that the time change. So I plan, I intend to have your letter done by Thursday, so that I can make sure it submits properly. But yeah, I just want to make sure you plan, you plan to submit that application Correct. Yes, because yeah, if you're not, I won't write the letter, but as long as you're planning to submit that application, I will, I will have my letter ready for

42:56  
you. I really appreciate you. I will, I will have that application done is,

43:05  
this is what you sent. The did you send any other copies of this thing I'm holding? Because, you know, I didn't read your email. I only saw the

43:14  
attachment. Oh, no, I didn't send it. It

43:17  
says, So what do they need?

43:22  
So I saw I got something from the the the institution itself. So you probably typed in a list of people and sent email addresses. They send an email.

43:33  
I can have some horrible I can resend you. Send me what you got from them,

43:39  
yeah, so I get it from you,

43:41  
so at least you know what to look for. It'll probably be it'll probably give you your own personalized link.

43:52  
Sender contains O, i, s, p, is it? Does it have the word Okinawa in it?

44:01  
Search for O I S T, admissions, O I S P, T, T, like technology, technology,

44:12  
I will search for O, i s t,

44:15  
no, okay, I can resend it. It's yeah, definitely do that.

44:25  
Okay, well, you gave me something

44:27  
to do this week. The only other thing I'd say is, when you're writing your personal statements and really anything for graduate school applications, make sure you've got an editor, or, even better, multiple editors, to look through your your stuff. It'll, it'll, it'll help. Yeah, editors are great. They can point out things that you don't notice yourself and clean up your language

44:53  
definitely, yeah, and say things

44:57  
in pure words in a tidy fashion. In

45:12  
I don't have anything with the word admissions in it.

45:16  
That's surprising.

45:19  
I mean, I do, but nothing. It's from the Chronicle. It's from CS graduate admissions. No, I need it again. Okay? And when you don't see something and it's urgent, call me on my phone or text me and say, hey, check your in, check your email. If this is urgent,

45:40  
you have a website. I've never looked at your website.

45:47  
If Okinawa pays your stipend and tuition, would you go there?

45:53  
Yes, it looks like an interesting program. Honestly. What is it? It looks to be a true interdisciplinary kind of

46:06  
research university where that there's not, it doesn't appear to be clear demarcations in terms of well siloed research.

46:14  
Somebody like Emmanuel is going to have that problem. You try to go, you're going to get eaten if you go into programs that have specific names, because you are going to be a year or two behind in those programs, probably a year, you'll catch them, but that's going to feel bad

46:35  
is the LinkedIn? Is that going to give me your CV? I So,

46:43  
okay, so everything I have here should

46:47  
have everything. So your website has a lot of this information, but then you also Okay, download resume. That's a handsome resume.

46:58  
It it look like that, because I don't know what I don't

47:05  
maybe in the way that actually send me that, yeah,

47:09  
wherever I got this, probably not the same place he just got that. I don't know where I got this, maybe called the CV. Trying

47:32  
to think of what other comments did I have?

47:38  
Yeah, this actually is not a handsome other day, but it's impressive. So it's

47:47  
got a list of everything that's not your resume. So there might have been, did you download it from the website? I came to me it it. Because if you saw the actual resume website, it kind of like drives down. So when he printed it, it probably like clung, you know, from the formatting William and Mary

48:15  
UCLA School of Theater. And then it goes to achievements.

48:20  
Where did I find that? I maybe the website and then it, it formatted weird when you printed it out, I think

48:31  
I copied it and pasted it. That

48:33  
could also be those are two possibilities. Send me

48:41  
that resume. All right? Well, we will write you something, and we will say they'd be lucky

48:45  
to get you, yeah, and there's a website tell them

48:49  
you can this is me taking it on faith. You read right and speak Japanese well enough that if you're walking down the street in Okinawa and you see somebody sweeping her porch, and you want to strike up a conversation, you could

49:07  
do that. Hey. Mihonwa. Hanashi, mas Jules, I'm

49:12  
taking it on faith that you can continue that for another half an hour. Are

49:16  
you enjoying Japanese? Is it

49:18  
something you want to is with that? If not, why would I be applied?

49:27  
Again? Coming back to the stupid questions, you know, knocking people for a loop, that's I just want to make sure I'm afraid to ask this carry me at two. So I'm gonna bail

49:41  
also in that email. So what I was telling Dr Beringer, let me so the email where you got the letter is a list of colleges,

49:55  
yeah, but I'm gonna respond to specific requests when. They come to

50:00  
Yeah, because all of those will come from the university,

50:03  
yes, but I'm saying that in this list down here, I'm open to your comments on the colleges.

50:10  
I have nothing to say. There's another tab I know. I just noticed it now one

50:27  
line per University. I am applying to the following 11 universities, and I will then print that and put it on the thing next to my computer. Okay, then I mean, when do they need to have, whatever need to have, and how that usually works is I get an email from them saying Emmanuel Sampson has applied. He's named you as a referee. Please hit this link. That's how it works for me. And I check the box after I do it, and then when there are no more boxes to check, I know I'm done. Sounds good, but I can't keep track of it. Yeah, it's got to be paper

51:11  
on the side. It'll be up to you to check the status of your application along the way, because they'll they on the websites. It'll tell you when I submitted my application whether that's checked off. So if you see one of your recommenders hasn't sent a letter in, and you expected it to happen, and it's a few days before the deadline, it's incumbent upon you to be on you got. You got to be on your recommend I have never missed one. No, I 4550, years. I've honored all. I've honored all of my

51:44  
closest a student has sent prior to deadline. I mean,

51:49  
I Well, I mean, I have to have the letter written. I can't write a letter

51:54  
in an hour. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course.

51:56  
I try to have a personal goal, to have everything done at least before Thanksgiving, because that frees up my mind and the students minds.

52:07  
This place is famous for taking up my breaks.

52:11  
So yeah, thanks. The same Thanksgiving holiday is a good time to write recommendations.

52:16  
Well, that's next week. Week after next week I'm going to gonna have your letter written pretty soon. I still don't know what I would say about you. That includes everything you want me to say about you.

52:33  
I think I cleaned something from this. There are some projects I've done here, like the organization.

52:39  
Oh, stop you in life, perfectionism.

52:44  
Perfectionism is a danger.

52:47  
Don't do it. And I read that in there somewhere. I'll chase it and chase it and chase it trying to look for the perfect answer. Don't bother. Good enough is good enough. Now, who gets paid the biggest bucks in the whole world are people who are really good at determining that this is good enough. Better you get at that, the more you're going to get paid. Because if you chase perfection, you're wasting your time.

53:15  
Yeah, nobody wants anyone to waste time nibbling around the

53:19  
margins, not just that. There is no such thing. We, lot of the people in this building, are very fond of the word optimize. It's a stupid word. And what makes it stupid is the projecting projection operator, the fact that you are casting a trillion dimensional life into three dimensions to live. So it may be absolutely optimum in your little petty 3d domain, but I know I can find you an access where it's not going to be the optimum So, and that's why you get paid big dollars to know good enough release it, or go on the press, or shipping this product, or blah, blah, blah, whatever it is you're going to do. Gonna do, all right, I'm going

54:05  
Thank you. When something good happens,

54:11  
I'm happy to write your letters, and I'm looking forward to thinking about you deeply.

54:18  
I'll be sending more emails, probably before my flight this Saturday. Well, I'm just

54:24  
saying I'm glad there's an early one, because, for my sake, it gives me, it gives me a good place to start. And I've already written recommendations letters for you before. So I've got, I've got

54:36  
for a couple of things. I had to get a lot of scholarships throughout, and Dr Beringer has been,

54:43  
I'll be your plan B. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. In graduate school you're gonna have to focus on, yeah,

54:59  
it's hard. Get like his, you have to temper, you have to temper the impulse to be too explorative when you've got time constraints on a pressing project. So in graduate school, one of the things I had to learn is that there is, there is, there's some, there's no small amount of sacrifice in terms of, like, how you, how you discipline your mind on a project. One of the things that it seems like if, if you have a natural inclination, you're there, you don't stop, that's awesome. But I guess the one of the questions I have is going forward, what kind of strategies do you have for like and this will have, this will happen where you are working on a project, here you're standing and you've been going hard at it for a long time, but it doesn't seem like you're making progress. Like, what kind of strategies do you have in place for when it when the going gets really tough, or a lapse in motivation? Like, what, what kind of strategies do you have to, like, kind of muscle through and power through projects that are not in your wheelhouse?

56:07  
There's, well, there's two ways, if it's not my wheelhouse, I have to, like, acknowledge it and look for help there. There's always someone to talk to, even if they don't understand like, they can help me, like reframe the project in a different way. And that's extremely helpful for engineering projects, per se, when I didn't understand something, I go to advisor who didn't understand my project, but he understood like engineering and like concepts in general, so he would like reframe it in that way, and I can figure it out from there. If it's something I'm solely on my own at that point, sleep, sleep, maybe a long run, get myself out of the space. Because when you're like, when you are funneled, and you tend to be funneled in, into like, like, this aspect without you have to find ways to have both views.

57:12  
Yeah. You have to find a way to change, change your perspective and change the scale of your perspective. Yeah, as somebody who struggled with that in his whole life, it's just, it's just something, I mean, because I Dennis sees a lot of him in you, and I see a lot of me in you. Maybe that's all you know, psychological projection or whatever. But it's just, I know where, where my personal challenges are, and they've never really left me there's, there's things that I will probably always struggle with in terms of, like, how to focus my attention and coming up with, kind of the, I guess, the mental fortitude and discipline to pursue something like, even when you don't want to, because, like, even when you want To, you there will, there will be instances, yeah, either through, like external things intruding upon your life, or like interpersonal conflicts, or like campus politics, or like romance or something, something's gonna come in Yeah, and clock you, yeah it's just good to, kind of like, be aware that, that that in those instances, like when, when you know everything's on the line, you gotta, like, have, have a diverse set of ways of, I guess, coping, coping with The challenges as they come especially for you. I mean, who knows, who knows what's, who knows what challenges you're gonna face? Yeah, technologically, academically, because, unfortunately, we can't see into the future, at least not perfectly. It's always, it's always hazy out there. Yeah, future at best,

59:01  
I like to say that I see my I feel like I'm in super position for my future. So, yeah, job, employment, it all depends on what happens now.

59:14  
So yeah, to a certain extent, yeah, you can control your wave function in, like, where, what spaces you occupy, and which projects you know occupy your time. But like, I think you're I think you're not a bad place, just folks, I guess, really focus on that application. Make it and make it as good as you can have. I don't know what's required of you. What is required of you for this application.

59:41  
Honestly, it's not, it's probably not that. It's actually not that bad. So there's the recommenders, then there's a personal statement, and

59:52  
then transcripts,

59:55  
yeah, well, yeah, of course. And then it's. Says exam scores and exam documents, but I don't know essentially what they mean there, maybe, like

1:00:06  
a general, probably a gr here,

1:00:10  
yeah, but I don't It's like reading it down. It's like personal background, education, history, supporting information, non degree studies and career area and interests, and then travel information, relationship recommenders. And honestly, that's, that's not

1:00:31  
horrible, that's not nothing. I mean that that's a substantial amount of information. And just just approach it carefully and but, yeah, whatever kind of personal statements you come with, I strongly urge you to have multiple people from a couple of different I mean, in any sort of you know, professor that you trust, I would say, have have as many people as is reasonable, like just Cast eyes on it and give you feedback. Because that's, that's kind of, I mean, that it's, it's the old, it's the old first impression problem, right? You only get, you only get one shot at that. So having, having a good editorial process as you're writing is just, I can't emphasize how important, yeah, even, even to the best writers, even to the like the people who are you know, even Dennis, he can benefit from people reading his stuff too, because even he makes hysterics.

1:01:37  
The this conference is, oh, the

1:01:40  
one you're heading to, yeah,

1:01:44  
so it's,

1:01:47  
it's, have you talked to Eric? He was, he was thinking about

1:01:50  
driving. He was thinking about driving, yeah,

1:01:54  
because they were worried about, because he's, I mean, everyone's still kind of worried about, like, the flight issues. But have you heard anything? You know, no, I haven't. Nothing's been canceled on.

1:02:04  
Yeah, I'll double check. But honestly, that's fine, but it's coming at a time where I need to, like, get my applications in, because Dr Mayo says, right, there's like two weeks before Thanksgiving week.

1:02:19  
Yeah, I mean, I'm gonna go through and look at your deadlines, on your on your spreadsheet, which I which I understand, but, yeah, it's, it's

1:02:33  
this one, honestly, this application I am planning on, like, applying, but like, I'm not, like, since it's so soon, I'm not like, heartbroken, yeah.

1:02:46  
I mean, I would say, like, if for some reason, you end up not applying, or, or it looks like you're not gonna apply, just, just give us a heads up, because,

1:02:54  
no, no, I will apply. But like, I'm not the outcome. I'm not too attached to you see what I'm saying.

1:03:02  
Yeah. Like, you're you want, you want to apply, but this isn't, it's your heart isn't going to be broken if it doesn't work out. Yeah, okay, yeah. And that's a healthy attitude, because, and that's why you probably have, whatever it is, like, 11 line items there about where you want to go, which is fine. I mean, that that's the way it is. I mean, it's, I encourage you not to have your heart set on any one thing, because that's that is the highway to disap but, but don't, don't sell yourself short. And just put, put your all into your into your applications, because every little bit counts, because people who are reviewing these applications are just looking for, looking for any sort of distinction, or any sort of way to differentiate a what is usually a pretty qualified chunk of applicants. So don't, don't, don't sell yourself short. And, yeah, and, and don't take it personally. If, if, if it doesn't work out, yeah, because it's probably not personal.

1:04:15  
So there are, there are three applique there's yet, there's this one that's coming up now. Then there are three December 1, and then the rest are December 15 or January.

1:04:31  
Yes, yeah, December 15 and January 1 are usually big deadlines. Yeah, sometimes it's a December 1. This, this November 15 is pretty early, but it's Japan, so I don't know, maybe they do things different, yeah, but most American universities, it's like December 15, or like January 1, or, I think sometimes December 1, yeah, just kind of depends.

1:04:56  
So, okay, now. It does, like, I was reading into program and, oh, man, I wish the ED line was later, because it does seem like a really

1:05:08  
at the website, like, this looks kind of cool, yeah.

1:05:12  
And I that, but like, they have, like an applied physics and engineering that's, that's why it's called the program. I was like, Oh, this is good.

1:05:23  
It's kind of like, yeah. It's kind of like that, in that regard, like you're already kind of, yeah, you're already kind of familiar with it. That kind of like that, the spanning the physics and engineering kind of domains, right?

1:05:39  
In addition to that, there's a internship program. I saw that as well, yeah, but the internship program kind of, like passed, but if I don't get in, and I'm like, in that, like, gap year waiting to, like, apply again, yeah, I probably apply to that and go, because that internship program is kind of like a bridge. So it's internship to PhDs, kind of like an onboarding

1:06:04  
program. Yeah? Like, yeah. It's like, it seems like another way to onboard,

1:06:08  
and I think that'd be interesting too, yeah, yeah, yeah,

1:06:11  
don't, don't. I wouldn't discount anything. But honestly, like, if you apply to all of these, I bet you'll get at least some, at least one will happen that's exciting. And reading through this, it does seem like your summer job was kind of a instructive experience for you more than I think I anticipated just reading through this. But I mean, honestly, if they're interested in retaining you or hiring you down the road as a, as a, kind of, you know, a plan B, as it were, I think you could do worse for yourself, especially if you enjoyed it. Yeah. So, yeah, don't, don't discount those opportunities.

1:06:53  
Yeah. And then let's say, let's imagine I we're just matching the case again. Twiner, don't get into grad school just yet. I'm still around William and Mary. I could still kind of, like, come in and do some actual, like, due diligence, yeah,

1:07:12  
professor who did his PhD here in state and worked at the university, I would, I would probably discourage that. I really, I think there is something to be gained by getting a different cultural experience, yeah, and if I were you, I would, I mean, everyone's eager to retain talent around here. And, I mean, I'd be sad to see you leave. But just from from a strictly sort of, you know, developmental perspective, I think it's probably a good idea for you to Yeah, to get out of dodge, try something new, yeah, and to live somewhere

1:07:47  
I want to leave if it

1:07:51  
doesn't work out that way. I mean, yeah, I'm here to tell you it's okay, but there's and maybe the grass is always greener, but I would hate to see you short change, you know, a the kind of, like cultural experiences and a broadening of your perspective by just, you know, being somewhere else. But, yeah, it comes with, you know, some uncertainty. Uncertainty scary, but it's always there. Yeah. Anyways, is there anything else you need from me, right?

1:08:25  
No, I just really want to say thank you. Oh, you're welcome. And if there's anything like, any questions or like, any like experiences, you want me to elaborate on,

1:08:36  
no, I think I mean in the arc Core Labs. It was like, you started, basically when I started my new my new position here, we basically onboarded you when I started this full time position. So you've been here in you've been along for the summer, at least. Yeah, my ride. So I think I've got.

