0:00  
Then you have choices. More importantly, why do you want to study? This is sounds like, why, right, so, but it's actually, if you ask yourself honestly, or maybe you talk to your friends, you would notice that there is two, at least two category of people, some knows why they want to go to graduate school, and the other goes there because everybody else go, right? There's something like this probably happens with the undergraduate study as well, right? The Graduate Study kind of might amplify this. There is nothing wrong not to know why you go to graduate school and just follow if it works. Why not? But generally, you kind of by this time, trying not to do delayed choice, meaning that, oh, I will decide once I get undergrad, I will decide once I get a PhD, I will decide once I get married, I will decide once I did right? So make a decision a bit earlier. It will make your life easier everybody else around, okay, then you need to create a list of schools where you want to get admitted, right? It's kind of sounds obvious. Everybody want to go to MIT and Harvard, but look for other schools, right? And some schools are famous. Some other schools are good, right? Good for you, not necessarily for everyone. So if you kind of just, I don't know, decide to study worms, right? Look for school which study worms the best. Not necessarily hard. How to decide which School Talk to your prof scan, right? Especially if they kind of work in the field, which you want to study, they probably know a couple schools which are famous in the field, right? So here's kind of things, kind of right. We are not MIT and not in Harvard. We have about 100 application every year for 10 spots, right? About sort of those people who start the application finish it up to 80% and decided not to follow which leave like 60% still on the 10 spots, and we sent about 30 offers, so about half of the people never hear from us, right? So you kind of need to decide and make it convincing your application, okay, so then you will need something like a cover letter. Pretty much it's uniform requirement. They go, what is cover letter, right? Who you are. Why do you want to get to this particular school? What makes you special? Don't make it very long. Couple sentences. Then say, this is where you want to make it very long. Same topics, who you are. Why do you want to get to this particular school? What makes you special? And then we'll talk a little more about two or three recommendation letters, right? We will discuss what are good recommendation letter What are not kind of, but you need to prime people who just think, we'll write letters for you now, right? Kind of, all of us will write it in one day, but we don't know which day it is right. So give us time. Then there will be transcripts. To send transcript, you have to pay the money, right? If you're applying to 1015, 20 schools. It's a lot of money just to send transcript. We, most of us, are physicists. We don't care that it has official stamp. So it's okay to send unofficial whatever binary generate for you, like we kind of believe you and administration, which don't, will ask you to send a future once, once it's kind of you start to decide, kind of at the signature time, right? So those boys that you don't have an official right now, send whatever you have on top of it. Of course you will be sending somewhere November, December. You still have full semester to cover, right? So don't worry about it. Okay? So list of papers, talks, conferences, whatever you did something. Usually we ask something like this, like, what else you did in your life? Strange kind of requirement. Which textbooks you use for your upper level classes. We all study physics, physics, even modern physics is 100 years old, right? So, but some textbooks are easier than the others, and this allow committee to eyeball kinda what is your level of preparation? Don't worry, your level is good, but kind of you will have to grade. What else? Okay, then the schools will ask you to pay something like 50 bucks and more per replica. Well, it's an investment, right? So generally speaking, you can send and say, Hey, I'm kind of desperate. It's not my situation. Could you weigh 15 bucks? Most of physics professor, glad you say yes, but it's not up to us. We have to negotiate. But 50 bucks is not a big money department can afford to pay once we convince that your application would so generally speaking, though, that's mean, apply, apply, apply, there will be a moment when it asks you for money. Okay, skip it. Send the letter, kind of saying, Okay, I did my documents are already ready formulation, but I kind of don't have money. Kind of could be waived often. For example, William Emmanuel, Mary has official list of people could be waived. You have to be a veteran. I don't know, mother with children. It's kind of no way you're one of those people. Kind of pretty much. Nevertheless, if you ask, it probably will happen, okay, but you have to ask, okay, GRE, meaning the right general, whatever exam. We will talk about it in a second. It's not popular anymore, though, some schools still ask, okay, so let's question so far,

5:38  
if the school says that the GRE general is optional. Well, if they said the jury is optional, like that, they will look at it if you submit it. Does that mean you should submit it if it's a good score?

5:50  
And like, why would you not submit if it's a good score?

5:53  
Well, okay, what is the boundary of a good score? Like, let's say William and Mary, for example. Like, what would you consider to be a good score for graduate,

6:03  
90% percentile? What would they get? Except maybe 50, maybe 40, maybe 20.

6:09  
Okay, and is that in specifically for the general test? Yeah. So yeah, I figured for general says, No, because, but if you get like me for the general test I had, like, a good one, and I'm pretty good in, like, the two main ones, but not the analytical writing. Is the end of how much is the analytical writing matter for

6:30  
schools depend on the school, on the committee. As far as I know at this department, we don't care what is your writing school. We kind of might kind of ask by slow but generally your physicist, that's good enough, all right? Like, if your analytical is low, that's kind of you should be good with logic if you're physicists. So that's strange. So you might write something and say, Why do you want to apply, like, optional meaning, if there will be a borderline, right? And this person who never attempted, really, and the one who attempted, I would rather take someone who at least right.

7:06  
It's a little bit of my personal opinion. But yeah,

7:10  
what percentage of like graduate students do you guys bring in that like, actually do the GRE now in the past

7:18  
question, we will just a second. We will talk about it.

7:23  
Okay, other questions. Okay,

7:27  
okay, so now kind of right, so you kind of work hard you and you all have delusions what we are looking at you like, right? Obviously, grace is a good thing, right, but kind of as admission chair can I, or actually a meeting member. So what kind of task is folded? Right? We vow to admit a person who will be with us five to seven years, right? First two years, you're completely useless, not because you're silly, unprepared, you're still taking classes. You have no time for your research. So for two years, we will dump money in you. It's not a big money, right, but it's a big plus. So we paying you money. So we need to know that first of all, by the end of this two years, we usually borderline. There are often like pgds, but often you can get mastering between by the amount of classes and something like low effort work, right? We want to take a person who will stick with us after right? So this is what we looked at. We will about to have a friend, a colleague and a student for five plus years who cost us money at the beginning, a lot. So we need someone who will survive this couple years, will not get disappointed, will continue and ideally graduate with PhD, right? If you are meeting a student and most schools like this, you really, really hope you will finish. That's the intent. There are very few employment without schools who take classes bigger than they need and chop it. Most of us cannot afford it. We take as rapidly as we need, and the legal company, right? But what it's mean? Okay, they want someone smart, but usually it's not a problem. You have good grades, you still you pass the physics, right? If you apply to graduate school, you probably are good. What helps us to decide do some competition prizes? I don't know, right? It's equating previous stuff like this. More importantly, that you are person who get to the finish line. This is really hard to decide. Your grades is not an indication of this at all, because graduate school is completely not like undergraduate, right? In undergraduate, you're given a lot of homework. It's hard, but there is one known thing. There is a solution, right? You can Google it. You can find it. It is there. When you're in graduate school, once you pass the classes, which is the easiest part of the graduate school, you're given a problem, your proof might have an idea that there might be a solution, but he or she doesn't know a solution, right? Generally, speaking of graduate school, this is where we start discovering so nobody knows a solution. It's up to you to find a solution. It won't come next night, it will come. Next week, it won't come. Next month, it might never come. I do a person who will survive it, right? Not getting disappointed, not getting depressed. Do drugs and alcohol, right? Give us indication that you're a person who will survive, one of the best indication which you could provide that you did work with the research group, so at least you've seen it, right? You've seen those depressed students who kind of laugh over the second but they actually crying, right? You kind of been in the lab without windows for a month or two, right? That's the rest of your life. Do you really want it like make sure you you do? You convince yourself, and thus you will be able to convince others. But this is what you're looking can you get to the finish line? Give me as a committee members, any possible indication that you know what you're getting in and you can survive through okay? Price of it. Like, what high degree needs, right? Kind of, what kind effort study, reasonable expectation, right. What does it mean? Have you seen the movies like, I don't know, Iron Man, right? This guy kind of walked dancing it into the lab. They let he come up with a new suit and solve the word problem, right? This is not how science done. You're not dancing, you're not out in a week, right? So it's completely different scene. And you're not working in a white coat, by the way, most likely, okay, so that you need to have reasonable expectation and show it in USA. Ideally, you want someone who go better, meaning that a lot of time, Professor, don't have a time, right? They give you something and kind of point into the direction you should be able to, please dig long enough until you know you dig deep enough in the hole, and you cannot get out that comfort question, right? So it's not someone who buys you with every possible kind of new things, okay, that probably will be in your letter of recommendation, right? For someone who works with you, okay? And most importantly, why do you want to be in that particular school? Right? We will write 1020 application. I don't just cross copy it, right? Carbon Copy, bad idea. Can it do something personal to that particular school? Because at some point I will have two or three persons who are more or less Okay. I need to decide who may give the offer, right? And there is a person who said I want to give the school because my girlfriend in on by department, or something like this. Oh, this is good thing. This person will accept my offer very lightly, right? Because another part of the job of committee, we will send a letter, and nobody replies, right? We give an offer, but everybody wait for bad offer from our it, and so you see it and sit until the April 15 kicks in, and then you're desperate, and they already have no hair. But it would be great, right? Because I don't have a class, right? So every thing which can increase my estimate that you would accept is a good thing, right? Either it means that there is a particular subject, a professor, which you really work and already strike a deal, something which kind of tells me, if I say yes to you, you will say yes to me, right? Because we all realize you're smart people, you apply broadbandly, right? So what discriminate my offer from somebody else? Right? It's nothing special. It's okay, but try to figure out something. Okay, so this is what we're looking right? That you can what is kind of Sylvester Stallone in one of the movie says that you could be on time you come prepared, right? So this is what we are looking for, okay, how to choose subject area? First of all, how not to choose subject area. Don't go astronomy or high energy physics, especially city. Do we want to expand on this? Yes, okay, so astronomy is super for everyone, so want to do some sort of astronomy. Why? Because skies are so attractive and mesmerizing, right? So probably every second one of you want to do astronomy. I'm like astrophysics, right? Which is not astronomy, but as a result of it, it's a little bit like biology. Everybody wants to do it because they think it's kind of flesh and stuff. Nobody wants to, I don't know, cook, superconductive crystal fishes, a lot of iteration due to work, and we were successful last 30 years, right? So astronomy will be your chances to get in the class even lower, like probabilistically, right? It doesn't mean you are bad. It's meaning that they will be 100 other people like you on one spot. So generally speaking, astronomy would be maybe over booked, right? High energy is kind of the same. I call it a green curse, science, popular movie about the guy called Green, and he talked about string series. It's kind of old by now, but you might and string series solve the word it's like it's as a physics which have a solution for everything he solvers solve that people kind of trying to solve problems of the universe, which I agree is kind of flashy and nice, but who's going to work in Optics Lab and use the mirrors, right? So kind of strangely enough, it's very popular. Everybody want to solve the super symmetry, whatever problems. So they are very choosy, because they really, really need the best brains. But from your point of view, there are not many sponsors the group, because those people usually have very little graphs, right? Even science can always look for something potentially useful, right? Not globally useful. So professors like Joshua early Chris Caron, they have a grant, but they can accept as students once or three years, like once in a blue moon. So this particular year might be not your lucky year. Next year might work. But So essentially, there are very few spots and

16:41  
your job perspective, not good.

16:44  
That's kind of sad. If something what you want to do, go ahead and do, but just know this, so everything else is good. So another strange thing, nobody want to be experimental most of the time. Everybody wants to do cd. Why? My explanation for this because most of undergraduate students took classes, and this was look like theory, right? You read the textbook, you solve a problem, and lab experience is kind of minimal, right, even in now wonderful school where you cover chance, yes,

17:17  
so this is more about the jobs and grants part. Should we try and identify grants that we could work under, but, wow, before we actually apply, but then we have to, we have to find professors. We should talk to a professor before he like, should we also try and find how it whether they have grants, like government grants, or anything, any grants, and then just, and then decide whether to

17:40  
apply to them? Really important point. Okay, that's actually tough. Usually, when you're taking the classes, you will be also TA. So there is like, effectively, Dean employs you, at least at our school, and many other ones. So while taking classes, you usually TA, and so there is an income because you doing TA, once you switch into resource assistant, and this is your goal, because the sooner you start doing research, the sooner you will graduate your pro have to find money to pay for right, believe it or not, we are not merely a nurse. Yes, that's another sad truth. If you go for size, because you think you will be rich, look at me and think otherwise. Okay, so your prof have to constantly apply for the money. That's why we have very little time to talk with you, kind of generally speaking. So job of the prof is not to do science. Job of the prof to find money so the graduate student and postdocs can do science. So you're working on your life to be the best scientist possible, but at the top of your career, you're not doing science. That's horrible. But this is not true. Okay, so effectively, yes, you kinda want to assess how likely your prof will have that he or she

19:00  
will have money. Are there public databases where we can find these

19:03  
great even the professor doesn't know what will happen tomorrow, especially in our turbulent climate. Okay, yeah. So unfortunately, like, there is a little bit fast is a predictor. So you can so usually big groups, that's meaning that they are have a good ways to kind of finding money and support that many students, like cities usually take students one or many, several years. So really, there is no way to do statistics. And the third probably you can give, is Professor having the money right. But by the time two years from now, that grant will expire, so they'll be used up, so you have no like, unfortunately, it's a it's a game. So with this being said, which go good school for user it's a school which have multiple professors in the area of your interest, because if one get dry, hopefully the other one still have money, right? So at least you can switch without changing everything. Most of school don't let you kind of die. Being as a proof Get Out Of Money doesn't mean that your life is ruined. Usually they will rehire USDA, right? So you can be you will be having less time for research, but at least you will get a paycheck and you won't die. So most of the school will do above and beyond to keep you offload. But if decide that there are no grants in particular subject, then there's nothing you can do. Right? A year or two, a department could survive on a war chest. So, yeah, no. High energy astronomy, maybe from that point of view, right? Condensed metal, always saving money because it's probably the closest to yours, and giving really useful stuff. There are hot topics, like, right now quantum optics, for example, is particularly hot topics. There are magnifying around. It's still not defended by Congress. Somehow people believe in us. But I remember when I was a graduate student, we were called a mop, then atomic and molecular optics, and there were no grants, no jobs. The situation was very different from now. So you it's kind of it's a better on the market, so to say so eventually you want to do what you like, and with the perspective to have a staging particle physics right now, right? Kind of some accelerator are closed. Some of them are grouped. It used to be a part of Defense Initiative, right? Why people have accelerators? Because we promise them a nuclear bomb. We deliver a nuclear bomb so they give us some choice to play. But that kind of, that credit is expired, actually, okay, so yes, on your side, it's a hard bet for particular school, for particular professor, speaking of this, some schools will tell you, Hey, come to us as such, such and such Professor agreed to admit you to their group. Sounds cool, because that such and such professor could be a Nobel Prize winner, right? Or like us, we will say we accept you to department, right? In one case, you might become array right away. But what if chemistry, Star alignment and you don't like each other. Nobody else told you that they like you, right? You will be hard pressed to find another professor and stuff like this. So it has proven contrast, kind effectively, but kind of generally, kind of look for a place which have couple profs, I give you more than better in that area of your interest, or maybe there are a couple areas of your interest, right? That's because you started in nuclear physics group. Doesn't mean you have to do nuclear physics for the rest of your life, right? So think about it, but it's kind of a bet, right? But it's like computer science used to be wonderful, profitable sin, and suddenly I came up and nobody needs them. Well, they will come back. But look right now, everybody seems they don't need ok. So finding schools, there are two links. One brings us back. So this is probably the most useful one. Again, I have your QR code and probably will send the link so player could distribute it. So this is kind of Google doc which maintained by a person. And it might be a little bit outrageous, but effectively, let's kind of click on this with the second one. Yeah. So that might be the most useful. It's kind of statistics here, mostly about physics, kind of astronomy, applied physics. So it's kind of physics, seeing engineers, this is not the best, but something like this. Do they want Jerry in physics? Do they want General Jerry Emmanuel at all they will be all for example, minimum is optional, meaning, if you provide it, we will look at it. Why not? Extra information always helps, and there are places which still require it. When covid hit, it became extremely unpopular and hard to request. Jerry. So it was kind of phased out. I heard that some schools kind of thinking, bringing it back. So, but if you look at this list, very few, but some of them, I think Princeton, kind of start to ask for jury or something like this. So if you're thinking, Should I take a jury consult with this link? Don't believe it, because it could be outdated. Go to that particular school and double check. But it's kind of generally speaking, there is a trend not to require Jerry. There is a requirement from the dean who still wants a journey, so you have to hide it back and forth. So for example, in millimeter, we put it kind on hold. It could be revoked at any moment, but right now, it's optional. Okay? So this is useful link. Right? Another useful column, how much they ask you for application.

25:34  
So some people have no shame in 100 bucks.

25:39  
Kind of sets truth probably Committee, which look at your application, or even department, will never see those money. They go to some big spot at the Dean admission and disappear. Lately, I asked Chris Caron, who was a graduate dean, where the money goes. He doesn't know. So kind of from that point of view, if you ask committee, can I agree with this area? No problem like because they don't care. Okay, so the second one is grad school shopper. It used to be much better than it is now, but at least you can do geographical look. Let's say you want to live as far as possible from your parents. Look at this area, right? So you can find a school of humanitarian there. Okay, now we're kind of going through the documents, right, cover letters. Like, nobody wants to, like, I want to go to graduate school. What else? Right? I already applied. Why do you need a graduate cover letter? Right? It's your chance to tell about yourself a little bit. And again. Why do you want to go to this particular school? Right? How? Because I will read many applications, and some of them, I see that they do a copy, because carbon copied, right? Nothing specific about me. I understand, okay, we kind of safety choice, fine, but try to kind of differentiate yourself. What make you a good choice, right? Why you want to apply? Right? Let's say there is a group which does optics, and you already have optics experience. Oh, it's a match made in heaven, right? Everybody likes you. You're fine. But if you're saying, I want to do high energy and you apply to the place which do only condensed matters. Why? What's wrong with you? They might give you service by not accepting you, and you will be sad about them, but they are in between the line. You don't want to come to them, even though you pay 50 bucks or so. Kind of because we're reading a lot of applications, start to be able to get through. But we also reading a lot. So you want to be somehow different, right? You don't want to sound generic something. So when we discuss, they will be, oh, this girl, this boy, this guy who did this, oh, it was in her letter. It pops. It kind of triggers the memory. It's not important, but it's good idea. Okay, essay, this is probably, let's kind of don't look here. What do you think should be an essay?

28:12  
Introductory paragraph?

28:14  
No, remember everything we write, it should be okay. Why do I want to go there? Or, why? No, why you survive, right?

28:23  
Why do you want to go? We don't care.

28:26  
But tell us why you're going to survive in our school, right? But effectively, can be a little bit more specific, right? I did this. I tried this kind of a lot of say, I don't know, maybe it was chatgpt or Sarah when I was seven years old, I look at the sky and starts with my resume. Since then, I want to be a physicist. You already 20 something years old? What's changed like? And this is nothing to say about this, about the past experience, so kind of, if you want to, it's like a cliche by now, so don't do this. But I want to be a physicist, because it's offer high money. I will go into shorts and work right? They might even have holes, and nobody care. This is the best workplace, which I dreamed about. Oh, you know how finishes look, right? So you did your homework. You know what you're getting it. See, the idea kind of be kind of specific. It drives the message. I want to do this because I know something about being physicist. I think I will survive, because I don't know I take quantum two and get a D. So what I still apply to physics, right? I've been hit. I survived. I know how to recover and keep flying, right? So the life is bad. It keeps me. I'm fighting, right? So this is the life of a physicist, right? Best thing, kind of I had a homework. I cannot solve a problem. I get my F true story. So what? I took it second time I survived, right? So there are excellent students who have only A's because I never been that student. I always look suspicion than them, partially, because I'm not one of them, right? So I'm Andy. Secondly, those people never been hit yet, right? So I don't know how they will react on first D in, I don't know, advanced quantum, right? They might collapse, so, but if somebody already had bad grace, and they still want to do it, and especially I see that they recover it and they're good, that's a good sign for me. Again, I've kind of, everybody will have their own gages. But for me, kind of someone. It doesn't mean that you should go and fail a class, right? But if you have experiences where life was evil to you and you survived, kind of highlighted,

30:53  
right? So this is kind of great indication,

30:58  
yeah, if you have problems, is a great sometimes you see it, person can apply transcript, okay, it's normal physicist, transcript. There is ups and down, and there is like, let's say D in calculus three, right? Calculus three is not physics, but kind of important, right? Because a lot of wasted and they kind of try to, not to talk about like nothing happens, right? But I want to know what's happened, right? Was it a fluke? Most likely it was a fluke. But tell me, give me kind of give me a reason to forgive you, right? So don't hide it, because we will need a transcript. We will see it. But if you say, Oh, this particular year, I don't know, I've been hit by a bus, so I had to take painkillers and recover, fine, right? Happens, right? If you have team chemistry, fantastic your physicist, the more so, the better, right, so, but kind of,

31:54  
kind of indicates that you understand and learn from your lesson.

31:56  
What happened during Quantum? Huh? I got in the bike accident during quantum yeah happens,

32:01  
right. But if you don't tell us, I don't know about Yeah, right, I've tried to give you all possible benefits of a doubt, but if I don't know why I have to

32:13  
gamble, kind of when Jim got hit by like a car during the test for one or two weeks, oh yeah, or I've

32:25  
been having a case of Yeah, and kind of important like, why? What kind of skills you have? Why do you think you will bring something to the play with, right? Or what you want to learn? Mention, kind of pros in this particular school, can I don't know. Professor PE does excellent research and such and such. I would be happy to join his or her group. So first of all, we know, you read our website, at least you know what kind of fields we have. So at least some homework was done. Secondly, kind of, it's Elsa, okay, this is kind of, again, said truth. Right back to the mining question. We're looking for 10 people, but we cannot hire 10 high energy physicists to be right, because there is one sport, or actually half a sport. So if somebody, if everybody, say, I want to do high energy, because that's fantastic, I just cannot accept excellent student, because I will not be able to feed you for the future five years, right? So eventually you might be excellent. But just because you said, I want to do astronomy and lesson, but astronomy, I cannot accept you, because I will ruin your life, right? But if you said, Oh, I'm interested in this and this and that, I said, Oh, these groups have kind of spaces, right? Because for you important part to get in, right, then you kind of show your worst part and kind of maybe get to the group which you really, really want. But admission here kind of tries to balance the books so they will be see condensed matter to optics. Want high energy in something in between, right? So don't lock yourself by saying, I want to do this and only this, unless this is what you really want. But don't also say I want to do everything. That's meaning you didn't do the homework and you don't know what you want to do. So you want to kind of be in the balance of in between, yeah, and what else you do? What else I have here? I think I had, if you try to zoom, oh, I have list by so on, right? So this is which feels you interested, right? Kind of give us way to be new in particular location, it's okay to bring personal story about relative friends in area or opposite. You're far away from this, so you want to visit this kind because, again, I'm trying to this is doesn't show up anywhere else, but it's kind of give me an extra point of information about you and how likely you accept an offer, because admission chair kind of have to fill a class by April 15, because after that, it's hard. So occasionally we play probability. If you're more likely to accept, I will go with a lower hand in fruit, so to say, for slightly worse students, if you wish. So kind of usually say, Don't give you personal information. This is a place where you might right. Okay, recommendation letters, right? So, first of all, give us ample time to to write a letter about you. That's also means that kind of talk to a professor about yourself, right? Because I might have seen you in quantum two somewhere else. I already forgot which class you took with me and who are you, right, especially if you skip a lot of classes. So have you been seated at the first row second or you have that show up at all to quantify this, right? So give us kind of little bit to just memory. Okay, so ideally, Professor kind of have to contribute to this point why you will survive in graduate school, and why you get good team member. So letter from a class professor, meaning you took a class, you sit in somewhere in the middle. Now, we interacted with the prof. It's kind of useless, because at most it will be written, oh, a student get a B or C in my final, which put him or her, or they in the 10 percentile, 20 percentile. It's kind of already in transcript, so it's not a new information. Kind of useless? Well, if you say, Oh yeah, this student show up on my every office house and drive me crazy kiss, that's a useful information, right? So, or kind of you say, or I didn't talk to class, but couple times in corridor, we strike a discussion and conversation something, it might be more useful than just from a class. Ideal letter from your research professor. If you take any research right, you'll have to do the senior thesis that probably person who will know the most about you, good or bad, from internship Reus, whatever. The other places are even better, because they like a professor, always kind of wants to send their student to good schools, right? So we always pre judged, and we tweak our letters to show the best you in the best kind of light, the person from outside doesn't care, right? So their letter will be less biased and thus a little bit more valuable. And we're always trying to adjust these biases, right? We are not naive. We know they exist. But from someone from outside, I don't know it could be, I don't know you took a job at McDonald's in summer, right? Life happens, right? If your manager said you come on time, prepared, and the workplace was still after you. Oh, that tells me much about your preparedness, right? Even though it's not a advanced quantum mechanics class, right? So this person somehow has to evaluate your potential, if you're desperate, yeah, physics 101 professor is okay. But again, you've been in school for four years. Really, you don't have anyone else stage

38:24  
what else? Yeah, I think

38:28  
it's kind of good. So when you have now how to ask about this letter, right? Just come and ask or write in the mail. Better comments, most of us will be happy to write an email, as long as you give us time to do it, okay, right? We will all write it at visit, and now it will be at midnight. I don't know which midnight, right? So give me time and said, By this deadline, it should be signed. We will we can be in jobs so we know how to handle deadlines, right? But if you don't give me deadline, I will not start. And then you come and say, Oh, it should have been some yesterday, and said, like, how do I know? Right? It's okay to remind the professor, within a week or two to deadline. Say, Hey, kind of do remember? They will say, of course, I do. And then they start remembering, right? Then you remind them one more time, because there are other situations. So it's okay to remind as long as not every day, not every minute, right? But yeah, I personally like when people come and say, Hey, first of all, I know you're still interested, and I still should send this letter, which kind of five or 10 minutes of my life. All right? So it's okay. So Elsa, kind of when you come to the office say, Hey, I'm such and such, remember me, I will say here, remind your name, just in case it sounds obvious, but it's just because you know your name right. How many of you know my name cuff right? Some of you have been in my class. Some of not been right, but generally right. I've had 20 or 30 people in the room, so I don't remember everybody's thing. So because I don't have to go back and look at your grades, tell about yourself, meaning that I'm thinking to go to Ghana's method, because then when I cook my letter start to kind of try and look in, for example, which kind of show good light in this particular subject area, right, if I could. But if I said I went to graduate school, I will write, oh, I recommend this student to graduate school, which graduate school? Which program? Is it physics, engineering or something else. It really very accurate letter. It's like, who come with my concern, this is a good student, right? So give some some some information about yourself so we can chew it. So if you are not a senior, right? This is a good time to build up a relationship with a professor of your choice, or to see choices and kind of slowly, kind of get to their door so they recognize your face, right? Because that will help to write this letter. Okay? So sometimes you say, Oh, I ask only for five, but I need 678, more applications and 678, more letters, right? Once I have a letter, it cost me nothing to tweak it a little bit and send it so it's okay to ask for the next letter again. Don't do it tonight. Give me a week to send new applications, but it's totally fine to ask for as many letters as you want. Okay, cool, any questions? Okay, cool. I think we kind of almost there. Maybe we are there, yeah, I think I have it there. Yeah, cool. So this was a mandatory part questions.

41:48  
So I've also been looking at international PhD programs specifically for the subfields of quantum and optical physics, like quantum and optical computing specifically. Are there any other countries where a PhD from a good university in that country are competitive for jobs in the US with an average American PhD, for example, if I got a PhD at like TU Delft in the Netherlands, would that be competitive, like, as in prestige for someone at the PhD from like William And Mary and ODU or something in like an

42:22  
actual job? Well, short answer, I really don't know. Secondly, often, again, some schools have a reputation in particular field, and it might be really good. For example, Canada has quite a few good school in quantum optics, kind of, right? France has a couple. Maybe in New Zealand. I haven't heard about New Zealand, but I didn't look that carefully, right? So it's a little bit depends. The best choice kind of often department have, like our alum now, where they will often tell you where they get work. Actually, it's a good question. When you apply in the school, do your homework and see where the radio turned up. Often you don't have this information, but once you start visiting the

43:09  
school, ask it during the interviews. Is it a like? Is it bad to ask the interviewer if you're in an interview for grad school?

43:17  
No, it's a look. Depends how you are. You face your question. If you said, how good is your school? They will say, Oh, it's excellent. Do you know what's happening with your graduates, where they go with a typical career path they take? And they will be delighted to tell you they know forgot. If you ask me, I know only students from my group, maybe couple adjacent, so I don't know the full set, but often you will have a meeting with the department chair. This person should have a better review, as we're not. So it's a good, it's perfectly good question, because your life likelihood depends on this. It's a it's a fair and good question.

43:57  
So my question earlier on, like, how often do you guys get people who take the GRE? Now in the past, like two, three

44:04  
years, I really don't remember, because our policy not to look and so often, but I would say maybe one in 10, often, international students take the GRE. Take the GRE. Local people like you have choices now, right? Yeah, so I give you a link. Look at there is plenty of good school who do task for jury, and it's like 200 bucks or 300 bucks and a time. So a lot of Americans skip it, and that's fine. This is New

44:34  
York, all right. The next question is, like, how much do you recommend? A year break, not break, but to, like, go work industry and then come

44:44  
back. The question, what for? Let's

44:47  
say, all right, to put myself out there, I kind of just like building things. So I want to, like, study, like, maybe robotics or something like that. So then I would want to come back. Because, like, you can, you can go into industry, but then, like, they don't tell you that, like, you kind of plateau. So I would like to come back and then do school to, like, get a masters, or, like, a PhD, something in electrical engineering, probably so. So, like, how would you would recommend taking a gap. I There's also other

45:22  
apps, but I don't see it's a big deal. Yeah, the same as withdrawing your transcript. If somebody has withdraw, big deal. You took too many classes, you withdraw. So gap here could to mean couple things, right? You're super rich, and you don't have to go to school and get your paycheck right away, right? There are people like this, and they can afford a little bit of rest. This is not bad. This is not good. This is situation. Somebody really, really need money, so they have to take it a little bit higher paycheck right before graduate school, with their wonderful 30k per year or something like that. So that's totally fine. Again, even better, if you say that would be my favorite cover letter, I took to, let's say industry or whatever, and learned this is not for me, physicist. That's okay. You tried it. It's not you know now what you want. You already tried the other side, and you don't like it. So kind of cool, if you learn kind of new skills, fine, I would say, if you want to learn new skills, can go to the group which give you those skills. Why would you spend another year not doing or doing it sort of for free, when you can push your grade, your degree forward? But there is nothing wrong with the gap here

46:42  
for so in the US, normally, I understand you that you get your if you apply for PhD, you get a Master's on the way. In other countries in Europe, I know, like you're supposed to get a master's, and then you get a you apply to PhD. How is it in like Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the you know, at least Canada.

47:01  
If you ask for Russia, I would be able to answer, what was there 20 years ago? Other countries I really don't know, like you, I agree, Europe always have a matter in between. And often, then you switch a school. Sometimes you stay with the school. Like for them, it's like, the, yeah, it's kind of, Master is sort of, this is why their PGD takes three years, because they already have a master got it. So it's just different flavor. There's nothing wrong, nothing, yeah, um,

47:38  
would, let's say, let's say I'm applying to like multiple places. Is it okay to, like, pick the same recommender, but just tell them, like, Hey, can you lie instead of electrical engineering, say I want to do like, quantum computing in this one?

47:53  
Well, first of all, I really did not know what you really want to do, yeah, but we understand this game. Yeah, totally fine. Okay, yeah, it's not flying. You're not sure. Yes, how much do like

48:05  
the admissions offices talk to each other

48:11  
from different schools? Not much, because there is no channel for this kind of but Professor Sheriff, whom you might know been admission. Sheriff is many years ago. He is way more outgoing. He went to Facebook. He tracked students. He went to the chats which graduate students apparently have. He kind of eavesdropping on conversation. He knew who goes where, why? So you might like again, look, what would I learn your else applying to? Let's say, UV, fine. I understand you would be silly not to do so. So it's really not a negative, yeah, so don't worry about it. Yeah, I don't know if you have,

49:03  
like, any opinion or thoughts on plasma

49:06  
as a field right here, but I

49:08  
feel like for applying to grad school, it's like

49:11  
better. Yeah, I have opinion about a lot of

49:15  
reactions, all of them crap compared to quantum rockets, right? But it's my personal opinion.

49:23  
So plasma been hot for many years, right?

49:30  
It will continue to be consistent and excited, not for me, sorry for like, your odds of

49:36  
like getting into grad school.

49:42  
I I think they're decent

49:46  
again, right? I can only tell you that we will this year. Professor Emmanuel asked for six students out of 10. Of course, we said, How about three? Right? So I think they kind of need people right now, but again right now. And what will happen with employment opportunities? I don't know. But right now, friends just reported they maintain fusion for 22 minutes. It sounds exciting. It sounds like finally fusion is almost there and not like 30 years from here, as usual, right? So it's look exciting and But science is always it's all like we are just people. We have this bubbles, right? Quantum objects, quantum computer. Super exciting. Why? We don't know, but it's kind everybody think it's cool, right? Plasma, same idea, fusion, I don't know nuclear reactors, right? There are cycles of this, and I live long enough to symmetric couple, so they will come and go, come and go, greet and perseverance, right? Most likely when you graduated, you bet on the wrong horse. It's okay, survive 510, years and it will be back. Yeah.

51:10  
What is your comments on like, applying to something you know nothing about like, like, there's no real well, there's no real quantum computing class in the physics department. But like you want to learn about quantum computing in grad

51:29  
school, go to graduate school which has

51:33  
quantum computing directions. Maryland, for example, I'd say actively working on quantum computer.

51:39  
Would you pick a grad student who is applying just out of curiosity.

51:48  
No, but you should fake it in such a way that you're really, really interesting, and this is your desire. So look, if you simply be taking you because you know something, this is a mistake be taken you because we see potential of you learning new stuff, right? Because you've been in high school, you came to undergrad, right? How much of that stuff was used? Very little, right? You have to learn something new graduate school, like you will begin this new slate. You became a postdoc. Most likely where you're applying is not the field which you will study you hired on your potential to learn, regroup and continue. And it's always like this.

52:31  
So if you get into a grad school and you accept it and like, you're there and you're studying like, for example, plasma, and then you want to switch to quantum computing and you have to find a new professor. How hard is that depends when, like, let's say second year.

52:47  
Okay, so it depends how school works, right? For example, let's talk about this particular school. So we accept student to department, like, kind of your eyeball, your application, and you said you want to do plasma or whatever. So we kind of said this person most likely will join that group. There's no contact about it. You're free to choose your change your mind and convince the pressure. So then first two years, you're taking classes. As I said, you're kind of useless in the sense that you have no time to be useful, not because you're stupid. So first summer begins. This is usually when classes are over and you join the group. Maybe other places will have something like this. So this is your first time joining the group, hopefully more or less for you, right? And this is your way to do you like this field? Do you like this particular professor? You talk to the people within and the desperate, and they say, Ah, he never will find a work. It's a dead zone. So you think, Okay, this is bad idea. I want mutual so usually first year, go Swish. You cost nothing to professor, well, except little bit of time of practicing and training. But we understand that. It's like marriages. Sometimes people get divorced. There is nothing wrong with people. It just happens, right? Second year begin here, this is kind of you probably really want to join, for sure, hopefully you walk around department and listen to the rumors, right? Students always talk. This professor is a slave driver. This doesn't care about you. This is never in office, right? Learn this time, like your job first year or two, kind of collect as many rumors as you have, right and based on those, you also make a decision, do you like a field and do you like a pressure? But switching at this point is still easy, because nobody get invested in you, and nobody put a real grant money.

54:40  
After second year again,

54:43  
maybe occasionally one student still kind of doesn't like the field or something else, especially if after the first switch, so you could still change. There have been students who work, actually back then plasma and who graduated from quantum optics group. Eventually, it's been long ago. It's mostly hard for you because you invested. You believed it right? And this is kind of have to start from the scratch, kind of you again, know nothing in the group. You have to learn the ropes, but it's doable. From other hand, I have a cautionary tale from some school high in the mountains, and a student been accepted to a Nobel Prize winner group. And you would be excited, except the Nobel Prize winners usually don't spend time in department. They go around and do the speeches. Right? This is a new job. So he started somewhere. It was expected that something will happen. It didn't happen. Professor, come back from somewhere, learn very little about student, but whatever assignment was, it wasn't done five from the group, and he joined, second one, second one already. Look at you. What's wrong, right? It didn't work as well. So eventually that student graduate with a master, but now he's actually reasonably big shot, and everything was good, but it was a personal drama. So it might happen. It's not easy, psychologically, rope wise, it's reasonable. It could happen. It is happening. The sooner you realize that this is a happen, and sooner you talk to current professor, future and Chair of department, so everybody knows that there is something going on. Everybody will try to accommodate again. Everybody admit a student so you could graduate. There is not we understand. Sometimes there are wrong chemistry and stuff like this. The sooner everybody knows they will try to help you right? The worst case scenario, you get depressed, you don't show up, you don't look for a solution. And this is seven years from the admission. Everybody kind of kicking you to graduate. You don't want it, and then it's tough. But changes happened if you look very carefully on our Emmanuel page, sometimes few people see people moving between the groups. Ask them, how hard is that? But it's not as cheaper. This is what I want to point

57:13  
what is kind of the timeline of talking to various people, like perhaps a professor whose group you're interested in working in, or maybe there's, like, an interview with the admissions director, or something that's gonna happen. Kind of, how do those fall relative to the application process?

57:31  
You mean, how soon you're looking for a group, or when you're looking Yeah, and kind of

57:35  
when, and how do you reach out to the various people? Or do various people kind of reach back out to you if they want?

57:40  
Well, generally, when you apply, you kind of want to have in mind where you want to work with whom, and then you can tag them up ahead of time. Because another good thing, right? Someone write you in the mail and say, Hey, look at your research. Often, it sounds like you really didn't, but I kind of interesting. And this is me, right. Professor will look at CV other places, kind of which, by the way, most of Professor don't have access to your application only committee. So if you want to be known to that professor, you probably want to send your documents with that email. But eventually, professor know, at least there is some interesting in my research, and at least I will ask a committee what's going on with this case, right? So let's say you get admitted to the schools, and you can add good idea, probably very early, to remind about yourself, saying, Hey, can I finally accept it so happy with the opportunity to work with you. Professor might say, right now, I have no time. But again, you actually looking two years from now, right? But you kind of start coming to the group meeting you've been in the shoes as undergrad, right? And you start slow, you learn around and kind of finally get admitted, but it's not expected that you will be able to do a lot the first year. So like, kind of learning the ropes lingo, it's fine, so the sooner, the better, because Professor kind of start curling the budget. Oh, there will be student who is interesting this. We will try for summer, how it works, right? Let's say it work out, then I need to find a grant for you. Or, if no students interested in my group, I don't have to apply for the group. Oh, for the grant. Oh, cool. But then you will show up, and then I have to apply, right? So the only I know that somebody's coming, the better. Don't expect a lot will happen at the very beginning. Maybe first winter break will be a little bit productive for summer. Then again, you kind of will forget Well, you see how our group works, right? A lot of summer people disappear. It doesn't mean we forget about them. They just have no time. Okay, okay, that's all. So apply to 10 school at least. Ah, there are still questions. So if you're applying to a school that actually looks at the GRE like, When? When do you recommend

59:55  
you start taking

1:00:00  
that and that like, how do you prepare?

1:00:06  
By taking practice journey you prepare to take in that way. I don't know what sat because I came from different countries. Yes, I thought it's kind of similar. You feel the bubble.

1:00:21  
Maybe it's computers these days,

1:00:23  
the general is fill the bubble. Physics is also

1:00:28  
hard, especially the physical ones, really

1:00:32  
hard, and you have, like, six answer options to most questions, or if I have less SAQ, I will

1:00:39  
not call the card you just pressed for time, that fairly simple question, but you have to do it fast. Yeah. So the best way which kind of work. For me, I study English,

1:00:54  
hard part of theory was, what the hell they asked?

1:00:57  
The problems are easy, but then you kind of practice for speed. For me, it was a bubble feeling sin, like we never had it in Russia. So it came with a pencil. I have to do the circle this. It has to be very well done circle. So I spent most of the time making this bubble, right So, but practice, practice, practice. How early? Usually you can do couple attempts. So the earlier you start, the more attempts you will have, potentially, if you choose to, I think you can choose what you send somehow, I remember, I usually see you see multiple attempts somehow, kind of when, because it's like that particular je organizations and the score, that's, again, totally fine, right? If you see the progression, lows better. Okay, you took an exam, you learned the ropes. You improved, right? Nothing wrong. If it's kind of good, good, ah, at least there were a couple good one and then you didn't pay attention to this. The lasted something fine. Yeah.

1:02:05  
You really should take it at least twice for the physics one, for me, that's going up much higher on the second time the first, especially if you haven't taken a similar access of the sap in like, a few years. The first one is going to just be a practice one, basically, especially this like that you also nothing is that you don't have any testing sites around here. We have to go up to like Herndon, up in Northern Virginia, because there weren't any in Williamsburg, Richmond, Charles Hill, the closest one was in Northern Virginia, like, two and a half hour drive away.

1:02:38  
Yeah, this is not a cheap exercise, kind of, that's why many places stop asking for it, because predictive power, this is fairly low. It has nothing about grid. It's more like how many times you practice it is a good data point. At least you get that high kind of, and at least you were willing to try. But kind of, look at that list of schools. And if schools which you want to apply is not there, don't go there. I remember my daughter came to I just not applying to the school because there were 10 others, and she's in Stanford.

1:03:16  
Yeah. Is

1:03:18  
there a way we could, like, learn about more about the fields, like, right now, like, different like, like, condensed matter,

1:03:26  
atomic Okay, what do

1:03:29  
you know about the semiconductor stuff, right?

1:03:32  
Some of it. Yeah, good. So Professor bar, she's working in condense matter. Talk with him. Okay, I don't know about much about commencement? It's not my favorite topic, as you'll see. I think Auburn is also condensed matter, no. But he does stuff which is kind of tangential, so Western kind of open somebody's office and say, hey, I want to do this. What is it about? Actually, you should say, what is it about? Maybe I want to do it right. But it's, it's like in high school, just because you didn't good, didn't have a good chemistry teacher, doesn't mean you will hate chemistry, right? Maybe you will join this place and you will like it, and kind of, believe it or not, it's little bit like marriages, right? There are multiple wonderful people, but usually many nearby. So humans are extremely pliable. If it's around you in the zone you send you will like it, believe it or not, or at least, you convince yourself. So don't stress too much. What is my field future? Believe me, you will like it once you spend enough time. Because everybody joins the group and professors shiny eyes like, look at this, and you look at like there's some colorful line, if you like your black and white line passing through the scope of that they're vacas, but provasika, that was clearly in right and this is happening with every graduate student. They joined the group. They think they might like it because it's an Ironman and other movies. And really, first year or two, they kind of, you can see, they start getting detached because they don't get because it's kind of weird. It's strange, and it's not exciting. It's not video game where rewards come in every 10 seconds, and kind of the glorious banana on top, right? It's kind of opposite, you boom, and it's boom, you knock, and it's kick, right? So first couple of years, people kind of learning to survive this marriage, and then you start enjoying it, and then they start stories that quantum optics is the best thing. Why? Because I never tried anything else,

1:05:56  
right? I had a choice, but I never tried.

1:06:00  
So you will like whatever you're working on, as long as you put in enough. Uh huh, yeah, but if you they take it from money, you're fools.

1:06:16  
Okay, so this is good.

1:06:18  
All right. Thank you. You

1:06:24  
Yeah, so last chance for

1:06:27  
if you choose it, I can also send it

1:06:29  
out. Okay, thank you. That's

1:06:45  
awesome. Would you be willing to hopefully? Oh, no worries.

